{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-02-14T17:26:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Does this mean she's broken Barack Obama's winning streak? The caucuses were held what seems like ages ago, but now that provisional ballots have been counted, the 26 of the state's 38 delegates can be allocated (12 are super-delegates).Do you all think Hillary Clinton will start mentioning this small win with enthusiasm as she tried to rally supporters with news of her complicated victories in Michigan and Florida?", "tags": ["Politics", "Hillary Clinton", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Clinton wins New Mexico caucuses"},{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-02-14T17:26:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Does this mean she's broken Barack Obama's winning streak? The caucuses were held what seems like ages ago, but now that provisional ballots have been counted, the 26 of the state's 38 delegates can be allocated (12 are super-delegates).Do you all think Hillary Clinton will start mentioning this small win with enthusiasm as she tried to rally supporters with news of her complicated victories in Michigan and Florida?", "tags": ["Politics", "Hillary Clinton", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Clinton wins New Mexico caucuses"},{"date": "2008-03-05T10:38:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Nights out or even long, languid lunches in the Mexican capital can be rather rootless affairs with not much that is obviously Mexican about them. But between the European-style bistros and the hipster bars, a resilient band of cantinas stand as a reminder of the real way to down a tequila with sangrita. Rudimentary bars with a few tables and chairs, the cantina's golden age was in the 1940s and 50s, a time when no Mexican film seemed complete without the hero drowning his sorrows in their shadowy embrace. The overbearing machista atmosphere has largely faded away, although the more traditional cantinas are still predominantly male. But last week, Mexicans said adios to smoke-filled cantinas.Typically, cantinas have simple d\u00e9cor, ageing waiters in formal uniforms and mariachi minstrels roaming around the tables. There are free nibbles (for example, botanas, a little bowl of shrimp soup, as shellfish is believed to be good for hangovers), but the lunch menu extends to such staples as sopa Azteca (chicken, chilli, cheese, corn tortillas and avocado), a few tacos filled with cochinita pibil (pork cooked with bitter oranges and chilli), birria de chivo (spicy goat kid stew) or torta de pavo (turkey slathered with nutty, hot and often chocolaty mole sauce between two large bits of bread.) The oldest of them all, with the licence number 001, was El Nivel. Opened in 1855, it was famous for a clientele that ran from presidents to revolutionaries, artists to bureaucrats, poets to street vendors. Its closure this year prompted a campaign organised by dedicated regulars. They remain adamant that it will reopen, but in the meantime here are some alternatives.  Over-the-top, unashamedly tacky and quite wonderful, El Tenampa is even more famous than El Nivel because it is on the tourist trail. The Salon Tenampa was opened in 1923 by a native of the state of Jalisco, where mariachis originated in the 19th century. It soon became the centre of mariachi activity in the capital as the bands left their folksy provincial image behind on their way to becoming spangle-suited popular icons of Mexicanness encouraged by post-revolutionary nation building. Most of the great singers of mariachi music have at least struck up a tune in the Tenampa, from the pencil moustached Pedro Infante to the more ebullient Vicente Fernandez, and the king of falsetto Miguel Aceves \u2013 and a good few are painted in murals on the walls.\u00b7 Plaza Garbialdi #12, Colonia Centro, salontenampa.com Open until 3am weekdays, 4am weekendsThe huge and rather elegant Covadonga is one of the few cantinas that has successfully turned traditional into trendy. The d\u00e9cor hasn\u00b4t changed that much, retaining the antique bar and square wooden tables that can easily be moved around to accommodate large groups, but the clientele has transformed from domino-playing regulars to the young on a retro night out. The menu features nominally Spanish food, with tortilla Espanola and jamon Serrano. Avoid the Roquefort salad - it is a disaster. \u00b7 Puebla #121, Colonia Roma. Open until 2am.A more down-to-earth model, Bar Montejo is a multi-floored pale yellow monstrosity that somehow manages to feel close to cosy. At its busiest on a Friday night when it fills with office workers loosening their ties, this really is a place dedicated to drinking and banter. The sopa de lima is a tasty option, a bitter lime chicken soup from the Yucatan peninsula, and suckling pig is the speciality. \u00b7 Benjamin Franklin #261. corner with Nuevo Leon, Colonia Condesa. Open until 1am.A small cantina with tiled walls and a pretty wooden bar right in the heart of the frenetically fashionable district of La Condesa. A drink here can feel refreshingly normal amid the kind of mixed crowd you might find in a local pub but will rarely come across in the restaurants outside. The prices, however, make no such concessions. Expect to pay about \u00a33 for a tequila that might cost you half that in a cantina in a less popping part of town.  Vicente Suarez #42, Colonia Condesa. Open until midnightLocated in a once grand area that has long since begun to crumble but is now undergoing a renaissance with the help of a slew of new private art galleries, El Polar is a classic in all senses. Except, that is, for its unusual claim to be a \"family cantina\". This leads to the rare sight of children accompanying their parents for a drink, and a certain cap on excess. It is also known for a dish called Oreja de Elephante - two large pieces of veal that look like an elephant\u00b4s ears.\u00b7 Guillermo Prieto 129, corner with Melchor Ocampo, Colonia San Rafael. Open until 1amOpened in 1876, La Opera is rather uncharacteristically ornate for a cantina. Amid the velvet drapes and chandeliers, you can order Huachinango a la Veracruzana (red snapper with olives and tomatoes), eel stuffed with avocado and a considerable selection of Spanish-style tapas from jamon Serrano to boquerones. But for all the flourishes, and the steady stream of tourists who find there way here, La Opera retains an aura of authenticity and a considerable dollop of charm. Look up at the bullet hole in the ceiling directly above one of the booths opposite the bar \u2013 it was reputedly put there by Pancho Villa.\u00b7 5 de Mayo #10, esquina con Filomena Mata, Colonia Centro. Open until 10.30pmA mid-sized cantina in a residential area with a relaxed atmosphere, Leon de Oro is one of the better places to actually have a conversation surrounded by others doing the same. It is also ideal for getting into the spirit of a national football match. Geometric stained glass windows in shades of gold and brown and golden domes add a touch of 60s and 70s kitsch to the interior. Locals swear by the tastiness of the lengua a la veracruzana (tongue with olives and tomatoes) and the quality of the tortillas. \u00b7 Avenida Marti #103, Colonia Escandon. Open until midnightThe Guadalupana has long been a favourite of the intelligentsia living in the colonial beauty of the Coyoacan area where Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Leon Troksky once roamed. It is also one of the few cantinas worth visiting in the south of the city. A recent makeover in a rather nondescript style has scrubbed away some of the charm of this simple cantina where the only music was the sound of people talking. It is still friendly and simple, but the pictures have come off the walls and the whole place seems a bit too squeaky clean for the genre. \u00b7 Higuera #2, Colonia Coyoacan. Open until midnightWorth a visit just for its oddness, La Faena occupies a large cavernous space in the bowels of an old building in the heart of the city centre. Bullfighting paintings, posters and photographs adorn the walls. The dust-covered displays in glass cases range from lights that no longer twinkle to mannequins decked out in the whole matador regalia striking suitably haughty poses.\u00b7 Venustiana Carranza 49-B, Colonia Centro. Open until 10pmTraditional cantina with formica-topped tables and adorned with murals of Mexican celebrities past and almost present, some dressed up as revolutionaries. These include the biggest stars of the golden age of Mexican cinema \u2013 Pedro Infante and Maria Felix. Popular nibbles on offer are huaraches (corn tortillas filled with refried beans) and pancita (tripe in a chilli broth).\u00b7 Division del norte 2216, Colonia Portales. Open until midnight", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Top 10s", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 cantinas in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-02-14T17:26:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Does this mean she's broken Barack Obama's winning streak? The caucuses were held what seems like ages ago, but now that provisional ballots have been counted, the 26 of the state's 38 delegates can be allocated (12 are super-delegates).Do you all think Hillary Clinton will start mentioning this small win with enthusiasm as she tried to rally supporters with news of her complicated victories in Michigan and Florida?", "tags": ["Politics", "Hillary Clinton", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Clinton wins New Mexico caucuses"},{"date": "2008-03-05T10:38:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Nights out or even long, languid lunches in the Mexican capital can be rather rootless affairs with not much that is obviously Mexican about them. But between the European-style bistros and the hipster bars, a resilient band of cantinas stand as a reminder of the real way to down a tequila with sangrita. Rudimentary bars with a few tables and chairs, the cantina's golden age was in the 1940s and 50s, a time when no Mexican film seemed complete without the hero drowning his sorrows in their shadowy embrace. The overbearing machista atmosphere has largely faded away, although the more traditional cantinas are still predominantly male. But last week, Mexicans said adios to smoke-filled cantinas.Typically, cantinas have simple d\u00e9cor, ageing waiters in formal uniforms and mariachi minstrels roaming around the tables. There are free nibbles (for example, botanas, a little bowl of shrimp soup, as shellfish is believed to be good for hangovers), but the lunch menu extends to such staples as sopa Azteca (chicken, chilli, cheese, corn tortillas and avocado), a few tacos filled with cochinita pibil (pork cooked with bitter oranges and chilli), birria de chivo (spicy goat kid stew) or torta de pavo (turkey slathered with nutty, hot and often chocolaty mole sauce between two large bits of bread.) The oldest of them all, with the licence number 001, was El Nivel. Opened in 1855, it was famous for a clientele that ran from presidents to revolutionaries, artists to bureaucrats, poets to street vendors. Its closure this year prompted a campaign organised by dedicated regulars. They remain adamant that it will reopen, but in the meantime here are some alternatives.  Over-the-top, unashamedly tacky and quite wonderful, El Tenampa is even more famous than El Nivel because it is on the tourist trail. The Salon Tenampa was opened in 1923 by a native of the state of Jalisco, where mariachis originated in the 19th century. It soon became the centre of mariachi activity in the capital as the bands left their folksy provincial image behind on their way to becoming spangle-suited popular icons of Mexicanness encouraged by post-revolutionary nation building. Most of the great singers of mariachi music have at least struck up a tune in the Tenampa, from the pencil moustached Pedro Infante to the more ebullient Vicente Fernandez, and the king of falsetto Miguel Aceves \u2013 and a good few are painted in murals on the walls.\u00b7 Plaza Garbialdi #12, Colonia Centro, salontenampa.com Open until 3am weekdays, 4am weekendsThe huge and rather elegant Covadonga is one of the few cantinas that has successfully turned traditional into trendy. The d\u00e9cor hasn\u00b4t changed that much, retaining the antique bar and square wooden tables that can easily be moved around to accommodate large groups, but the clientele has transformed from domino-playing regulars to the young on a retro night out. The menu features nominally Spanish food, with tortilla Espanola and jamon Serrano. Avoid the Roquefort salad - it is a disaster. \u00b7 Puebla #121, Colonia Roma. Open until 2am.A more down-to-earth model, Bar Montejo is a multi-floored pale yellow monstrosity that somehow manages to feel close to cosy. At its busiest on a Friday night when it fills with office workers loosening their ties, this really is a place dedicated to drinking and banter. The sopa de lima is a tasty option, a bitter lime chicken soup from the Yucatan peninsula, and suckling pig is the speciality. \u00b7 Benjamin Franklin #261. corner with Nuevo Leon, Colonia Condesa. Open until 1am.A small cantina with tiled walls and a pretty wooden bar right in the heart of the frenetically fashionable district of La Condesa. A drink here can feel refreshingly normal amid the kind of mixed crowd you might find in a local pub but will rarely come across in the restaurants outside. The prices, however, make no such concessions. Expect to pay about \u00a33 for a tequila that might cost you half that in a cantina in a less popping part of town.  Vicente Suarez #42, Colonia Condesa. Open until midnightLocated in a once grand area that has long since begun to crumble but is now undergoing a renaissance with the help of a slew of new private art galleries, El Polar is a classic in all senses. Except, that is, for its unusual claim to be a \"family cantina\". This leads to the rare sight of children accompanying their parents for a drink, and a certain cap on excess. It is also known for a dish called Oreja de Elephante - two large pieces of veal that look like an elephant\u00b4s ears.\u00b7 Guillermo Prieto 129, corner with Melchor Ocampo, Colonia San Rafael. Open until 1amOpened in 1876, La Opera is rather uncharacteristically ornate for a cantina. Amid the velvet drapes and chandeliers, you can order Huachinango a la Veracruzana (red snapper with olives and tomatoes), eel stuffed with avocado and a considerable selection of Spanish-style tapas from jamon Serrano to boquerones. But for all the flourishes, and the steady stream of tourists who find there way here, La Opera retains an aura of authenticity and a considerable dollop of charm. Look up at the bullet hole in the ceiling directly above one of the booths opposite the bar \u2013 it was reputedly put there by Pancho Villa.\u00b7 5 de Mayo #10, esquina con Filomena Mata, Colonia Centro. Open until 10.30pmA mid-sized cantina in a residential area with a relaxed atmosphere, Leon de Oro is one of the better places to actually have a conversation surrounded by others doing the same. It is also ideal for getting into the spirit of a national football match. Geometric stained glass windows in shades of gold and brown and golden domes add a touch of 60s and 70s kitsch to the interior. Locals swear by the tastiness of the lengua a la veracruzana (tongue with olives and tomatoes) and the quality of the tortillas. \u00b7 Avenida Marti #103, Colonia Escandon. Open until midnightThe Guadalupana has long been a favourite of the intelligentsia living in the colonial beauty of the Coyoacan area where Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Leon Troksky once roamed. It is also one of the few cantinas worth visiting in the south of the city. A recent makeover in a rather nondescript style has scrubbed away some of the charm of this simple cantina where the only music was the sound of people talking. It is still friendly and simple, but the pictures have come off the walls and the whole place seems a bit too squeaky clean for the genre. \u00b7 Higuera #2, Colonia Coyoacan. Open until midnightWorth a visit just for its oddness, La Faena occupies a large cavernous space in the bowels of an old building in the heart of the city centre. Bullfighting paintings, posters and photographs adorn the walls. The dust-covered displays in glass cases range from lights that no longer twinkle to mannequins decked out in the whole matador regalia striking suitably haughty poses.\u00b7 Venustiana Carranza 49-B, Colonia Centro. Open until 10pmTraditional cantina with formica-topped tables and adorned with murals of Mexican celebrities past and almost present, some dressed up as revolutionaries. These include the biggest stars of the golden age of Mexican cinema \u2013 Pedro Infante and Maria Felix. Popular nibbles on offer are huaraches (corn tortillas filled with refried beans) and pancita (tripe in a chilli broth).\u00b7 Division del norte 2216, Colonia Portales. Open until midnight", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Top 10s", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 cantinas in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-01-19T23:42:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The victims, all male, were blindfolded and gagged and had been shot in the head. The authorities in the city of Tijuana, near the US border, said the men had probably been abducted for ransom, or picked up for association with a rival gang.The three-hour battle between a handful of gunmen in a house and about 100 soldiers and police outside has highlighted fears that a military-led offensive aimed at quelling a gruesome turf war between drug cartels is turning into a more general conflict.Soldiers and state and local police were sent in to help control the gunfight, which began when federal agents prepared to raid a house police now say was a shelter for a cell of the Arellano F\u00e9lix drug cartel.Three nearby schools were evacuated, and television stations showed police running with small children in their arms while shots rang out.Edgar Millan, a spokesman with the federal public safety department, said the shootout killed one gunman and wounded four officers.Four gunmen were arrested - one is a state police investigator and another a Tijuana police officer, Millan said. The four will be flown to Mexico City for questioning. Millan said officials recovered 11 automatic rifles and three bulletproof vests inside the house.The bodies of the kidnap victims were hidden from view in the house. More than 2,500 people were killed in these kind of execution-style murders in Mexico last year. According to the newspaper El Universal, 142 have already died in 2008.", "tags": ["World news"], "title": "Kidnap victims found dead after Mexico gunfight"},{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-02-14T17:26:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Does this mean she's broken Barack Obama's winning streak? The caucuses were held what seems like ages ago, but now that provisional ballots have been counted, the 26 of the state's 38 delegates can be allocated (12 are super-delegates).Do you all think Hillary Clinton will start mentioning this small win with enthusiasm as she tried to rally supporters with news of her complicated victories in Michigan and Florida?", "tags": ["Politics", "Hillary Clinton", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Clinton wins New Mexico caucuses"},{"date": "2008-03-05T10:38:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Nights out or even long, languid lunches in the Mexican capital can be rather rootless affairs with not much that is obviously Mexican about them. But between the European-style bistros and the hipster bars, a resilient band of cantinas stand as a reminder of the real way to down a tequila with sangrita. Rudimentary bars with a few tables and chairs, the cantina's golden age was in the 1940s and 50s, a time when no Mexican film seemed complete without the hero drowning his sorrows in their shadowy embrace. The overbearing machista atmosphere has largely faded away, although the more traditional cantinas are still predominantly male. But last week, Mexicans said adios to smoke-filled cantinas.Typically, cantinas have simple d\u00e9cor, ageing waiters in formal uniforms and mariachi minstrels roaming around the tables. There are free nibbles (for example, botanas, a little bowl of shrimp soup, as shellfish is believed to be good for hangovers), but the lunch menu extends to such staples as sopa Azteca (chicken, chilli, cheese, corn tortillas and avocado), a few tacos filled with cochinita pibil (pork cooked with bitter oranges and chilli), birria de chivo (spicy goat kid stew) or torta de pavo (turkey slathered with nutty, hot and often chocolaty mole sauce between two large bits of bread.) The oldest of them all, with the licence number 001, was El Nivel. Opened in 1855, it was famous for a clientele that ran from presidents to revolutionaries, artists to bureaucrats, poets to street vendors. Its closure this year prompted a campaign organised by dedicated regulars. They remain adamant that it will reopen, but in the meantime here are some alternatives.  Over-the-top, unashamedly tacky and quite wonderful, El Tenampa is even more famous than El Nivel because it is on the tourist trail. The Salon Tenampa was opened in 1923 by a native of the state of Jalisco, where mariachis originated in the 19th century. It soon became the centre of mariachi activity in the capital as the bands left their folksy provincial image behind on their way to becoming spangle-suited popular icons of Mexicanness encouraged by post-revolutionary nation building. Most of the great singers of mariachi music have at least struck up a tune in the Tenampa, from the pencil moustached Pedro Infante to the more ebullient Vicente Fernandez, and the king of falsetto Miguel Aceves \u2013 and a good few are painted in murals on the walls.\u00b7 Plaza Garbialdi #12, Colonia Centro, salontenampa.com Open until 3am weekdays, 4am weekendsThe huge and rather elegant Covadonga is one of the few cantinas that has successfully turned traditional into trendy. The d\u00e9cor hasn\u00b4t changed that much, retaining the antique bar and square wooden tables that can easily be moved around to accommodate large groups, but the clientele has transformed from domino-playing regulars to the young on a retro night out. The menu features nominally Spanish food, with tortilla Espanola and jamon Serrano. Avoid the Roquefort salad - it is a disaster. \u00b7 Puebla #121, Colonia Roma. Open until 2am.A more down-to-earth model, Bar Montejo is a multi-floored pale yellow monstrosity that somehow manages to feel close to cosy. At its busiest on a Friday night when it fills with office workers loosening their ties, this really is a place dedicated to drinking and banter. The sopa de lima is a tasty option, a bitter lime chicken soup from the Yucatan peninsula, and suckling pig is the speciality. \u00b7 Benjamin Franklin #261. corner with Nuevo Leon, Colonia Condesa. Open until 1am.A small cantina with tiled walls and a pretty wooden bar right in the heart of the frenetically fashionable district of La Condesa. A drink here can feel refreshingly normal amid the kind of mixed crowd you might find in a local pub but will rarely come across in the restaurants outside. The prices, however, make no such concessions. Expect to pay about \u00a33 for a tequila that might cost you half that in a cantina in a less popping part of town.  Vicente Suarez #42, Colonia Condesa. Open until midnightLocated in a once grand area that has long since begun to crumble but is now undergoing a renaissance with the help of a slew of new private art galleries, El Polar is a classic in all senses. Except, that is, for its unusual claim to be a \"family cantina\". This leads to the rare sight of children accompanying their parents for a drink, and a certain cap on excess. It is also known for a dish called Oreja de Elephante - two large pieces of veal that look like an elephant\u00b4s ears.\u00b7 Guillermo Prieto 129, corner with Melchor Ocampo, Colonia San Rafael. Open until 1amOpened in 1876, La Opera is rather uncharacteristically ornate for a cantina. Amid the velvet drapes and chandeliers, you can order Huachinango a la Veracruzana (red snapper with olives and tomatoes), eel stuffed with avocado and a considerable selection of Spanish-style tapas from jamon Serrano to boquerones. But for all the flourishes, and the steady stream of tourists who find there way here, La Opera retains an aura of authenticity and a considerable dollop of charm. Look up at the bullet hole in the ceiling directly above one of the booths opposite the bar \u2013 it was reputedly put there by Pancho Villa.\u00b7 5 de Mayo #10, esquina con Filomena Mata, Colonia Centro. Open until 10.30pmA mid-sized cantina in a residential area with a relaxed atmosphere, Leon de Oro is one of the better places to actually have a conversation surrounded by others doing the same. It is also ideal for getting into the spirit of a national football match. Geometric stained glass windows in shades of gold and brown and golden domes add a touch of 60s and 70s kitsch to the interior. Locals swear by the tastiness of the lengua a la veracruzana (tongue with olives and tomatoes) and the quality of the tortillas. \u00b7 Avenida Marti #103, Colonia Escandon. Open until midnightThe Guadalupana has long been a favourite of the intelligentsia living in the colonial beauty of the Coyoacan area where Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Leon Troksky once roamed. It is also one of the few cantinas worth visiting in the south of the city. A recent makeover in a rather nondescript style has scrubbed away some of the charm of this simple cantina where the only music was the sound of people talking. It is still friendly and simple, but the pictures have come off the walls and the whole place seems a bit too squeaky clean for the genre. \u00b7 Higuera #2, Colonia Coyoacan. Open until midnightWorth a visit just for its oddness, La Faena occupies a large cavernous space in the bowels of an old building in the heart of the city centre. Bullfighting paintings, posters and photographs adorn the walls. The dust-covered displays in glass cases range from lights that no longer twinkle to mannequins decked out in the whole matador regalia striking suitably haughty poses.\u00b7 Venustiana Carranza 49-B, Colonia Centro. Open until 10pmTraditional cantina with formica-topped tables and adorned with murals of Mexican celebrities past and almost present, some dressed up as revolutionaries. These include the biggest stars of the golden age of Mexican cinema \u2013 Pedro Infante and Maria Felix. Popular nibbles on offer are huaraches (corn tortillas filled with refried beans) and pancita (tripe in a chilli broth).\u00b7 Division del norte 2216, Colonia Portales. Open until midnight", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Top 10s", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 cantinas in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-01-19T23:42:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The victims, all male, were blindfolded and gagged and had been shot in the head. The authorities in the city of Tijuana, near the US border, said the men had probably been abducted for ransom, or picked up for association with a rival gang.The three-hour battle between a handful of gunmen in a house and about 100 soldiers and police outside has highlighted fears that a military-led offensive aimed at quelling a gruesome turf war between drug cartels is turning into a more general conflict.Soldiers and state and local police were sent in to help control the gunfight, which began when federal agents prepared to raid a house police now say was a shelter for a cell of the Arellano F\u00e9lix drug cartel.Three nearby schools were evacuated, and television stations showed police running with small children in their arms while shots rang out.Edgar Millan, a spokesman with the federal public safety department, said the shootout killed one gunman and wounded four officers.Four gunmen were arrested - one is a state police investigator and another a Tijuana police officer, Millan said. The four will be flown to Mexico City for questioning. Millan said officials recovered 11 automatic rifles and three bulletproof vests inside the house.The bodies of the kidnap victims were hidden from view in the house. More than 2,500 people were killed in these kind of execution-style murders in Mexico last year. According to the newspaper El Universal, 142 have already died in 2008.", "tags": ["World news"], "title": "Kidnap victims found dead after Mexico gunfight"},{"date": "2008-03-04T16:57:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Javier Dom\u00ednguez Rivera had worked at the New York cereal factory before. Now he was hoping to return, bringing his two brothers and a girlfriend with him. But first the group had to negotiate the difficult journey from their home in Puebla, 60 miles south of Mexico City, across the US-Mexico border and on to New York.They crossed on foot in the barren desert of Arizona, near the town of Naco, where anti-illegal immigration groups have erected their own fence to keep out unwelcome visitors.But the crossing didn't go to plan. After spending hours hiking through the scrub and brush of the Sonora desert, the four had got just a mile and a half from the border. When they realised that the Border Patrol, the federal agency charged with policing the border, was close by, they decided to turn around and go back to Mexico to prepare to cross another day. When they were just 150 yards north of Mexico, the distinctive markings of a green and white Border Patrol vehicle appeared. What happened next is disputed, but the result is not: Dom\u00ednguez Rivera lay dead on the ground, killed by a shot fired by Border Patrol agent Nicholas Corbett.Last week, just over a year since the January 2007 shooting, Corbett went on trial in downtown Tucson, charged with second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide. Border Patrol agents have killed 12 people in the last two years; Corbett is the first to be tried for murder since 1994. Agent Corbett may take the stand for the defence today, probably the last day of testimony in his trial. If convicted of second-degree murder, he faces a sentence of 10-22 years; the lesser charge of negligent homicide carries a sentence of four-eight years.The trial comes at a time when tensions at the US-Mexico border are heightening. With immigration reform stalled, the federal government has worked to increase border security, beefing up Border Patrol numbers, building a fence along parts of the border and spending more than $85m trying - with little success - to build a \"virtual\" fence.In opening statements, Corbett's defence team portrayed the death of the 22-year-old as a case of self-defence by the 40-year-old agent. \"Nick Corbett had to defend himself, and he had to defend himself against Mr Dom\u00ednguez, who was trying to crush his skull with a rock,\" said defence attorney Sean Chapman. \"Nick Corbett did not want to shoot this man, but if he hadn't done it, he might be dead today.\"The prosecution, led by former Arizona attorney general Grant Woods, told a different story.\"This young man - while surrendering, going down on his knees, putting his hands in the air - from behind was hit, yanked and shot through the heart,\" Woods told the jury.\"We all respect the Border Patrol and law enforcement, but you don't kill somebody who is trying to surrender,\" he said.Taking the stand on Tuesday, Corbett said that he had been fending off Dom\u00ednguez Rivera, who was holding a rock and threatening him, when his gun went off.Summing up before the jury began its deliberations, Woods disputed Corbett's testimony, saying there had been no threat and that his actions amounted to a \"grave indifference\" and led to the young man's death.The three eye witnesses to the death took the stand for the prosecution, while Woods also called two Border Patrol agents who arrived at the scene shortly after the shooting, the lead detective on the case, and a forensics expert.In testimony to the court, the victim's brother, Jorge Dom\u00ednguez Rivera, said that when they saw Corbett's vehicle they decided to surrender, putting their hands in the air.As Corbett approached, pointing his gun at them, he said, they dropped to their knees. Corbett skidded to a halt, he said, and ran towards them. The agent put his gun in his left hand and it fired as he tried to push Javier to the ground with his right hand.\"The officer released him and took a step forward and my brother just held himself, said 'Ah' and just moaned\", before falling onto his back and going into convulsions, Jorge Dom\u00ednguez Rivera said.Using a hand-held radio, Corbett called for help. Another agent, Steve Berg, arrived on the scene within 90 seconds, to find Corbett trying to remove the clothing from around Dom\u00ednguez Rivera's wound. Corbett appeared to be in shock, he said. When a supervisor subsequently arrived, Berg said that he heard Corbett explain that the man had tried to attack him with a rock.The supervisor, Murray Adams, took the stand on Friday. He said that Corbett told him that he was holding his gun in both hands, came around his vehicle, saw a person moving to throw a rock at him, and shot him. Another Border Patrol officer, called to the stand by the defence yesterday, said that agents are taught that a rock is considered a deadly weapon, and that therefore the killing was justified.Forensic evidence from the scene shows that the gun that killed Dom\u00ednguez Rivera was fired three inches to one foot away from the him, and that he was shot from slightly behind at a downward angle.Defence attorneys argued that three Mexican witnesses had colluded in their account of the incident and had received guidance from the Mexican consulate. Another Border Patrol agent called by the defence testified that she had seen an official from the local Mexican consulate coaching the three Mexican witnesses through hand signals during an earlier court hearing. The prosecution disputed the account.In an earlier interview, Renato Dom\u00ednguez, the father of the dead man, denied that his son had been a \"delinquent\" or that the family was looking for a cash payout.\"The idea that a person can be a federal agent and behave like a psychopath is really incredible,\" he told Wick News Service. \"They have the power in their hands, and they abuse their authority. In my point of view, this man was either demented or an abuser of authority, or a racist.\"The jury began deliberations on Tuesday afternoon.", "tags": ["US news", "Mexico", "World news", "US immigration", "US domestic policy", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Death at US-Mexico border reflects immigration tensions"},{"date": "2008-03-21T17:50:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Bill Richardson, America's only Hispanic governor, threw his support behind Barack Obama for president today, delivering one of the most coveted and tightly held endorsements in the race for the Democratic nomination.The New Mexico governor joined Obama at a spirited rally today and said the Illinois senator demonstrated his leadership abilities this week with his speech on race. \"You are a once-in-a-lifetime leader,\" the governor said from the stage. \"Above all, you will be a president who brings this nation together.\"Richardson dropped his own bid for the nomination in January. His support for Obama comes during a tough period for the senator, the leader in the delegate chase over Hillary Clinton. Obama has seen his lead in national polls falter as he has grappled with the fallout from divisive remarks by his former pastor.Richardson was relentlessly courted by both candidates and his support for Obama represents a potential counterweight to Clinton's strength among Hispanic voters.As a Democratic superdelegate, the governor plays a part in the tight race for nominating votes and could bring other superdelegates to Obama's side. He also had been mentioned as a potential running mate for either candidate.No primaries are scheduled until Pennsylvania's on April 22, a gap Obama hopes to use for such announcements to assert that he is the frontrunner for the nomination.Richardson backed Obama despite his ties to Clinton and her husband, the former president. Richardson served as ambassador to the UN and as secretary of the Energy Department during the Clinton administration. Last month, Richardson and former President Bill Clinton watched the Super Bowl together at the governor's residence in Santa Fe.Richardson praised Hillary Clinton as a \"distinguished leader with vast experience.\" But the governor said Obama \"will be a historic and great president, who can bring us the change we so desperately need by bringing us together as a nation here at home and with our allies abroad.\"The Clinton campaign was publicly dismissive of the endorsement, after the New York senator failed to win it for herself.Citing Clinton's victory in New Mexico in February, senior strategist Mark Penn said, \"Perhaps the time when he could have been most effective has long since passed.\"Richardson was a roving diplomatic troubleshooter when he was a congressman from New Mexico, negotiating the release of US hostages in several countries and meeting with a rogue's gallery of US adversaries, including Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro.\"There is no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama has the judgment and courage we need in a commander in chief when our nation's security is on the line,\" Richardson said. \"He showed this judgment by opposing the Iraq war from the start, and he has shown it during this campaign by standing up for a new era in American leadership internationally.\"Obama said \"I can't be more honoured\" to have Richardson's support.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "US elections 2008", "US news", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor endorses Obama"},{"date": "2008-02-14T17:26:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Does this mean she's broken Barack Obama's winning streak? The caucuses were held what seems like ages ago, but now that provisional ballots have been counted, the 26 of the state's 38 delegates can be allocated (12 are super-delegates).Do you all think Hillary Clinton will start mentioning this small win with enthusiasm as she tried to rally supporters with news of her complicated victories in Michigan and Florida?", "tags": ["Politics", "Hillary Clinton", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Clinton wins New Mexico caucuses"},{"date": "2008-03-05T10:38:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Nights out or even long, languid lunches in the Mexican capital can be rather rootless affairs with not much that is obviously Mexican about them. But between the European-style bistros and the hipster bars, a resilient band of cantinas stand as a reminder of the real way to down a tequila with sangrita. Rudimentary bars with a few tables and chairs, the cantina's golden age was in the 1940s and 50s, a time when no Mexican film seemed complete without the hero drowning his sorrows in their shadowy embrace. The overbearing machista atmosphere has largely faded away, although the more traditional cantinas are still predominantly male. But last week, Mexicans said adios to smoke-filled cantinas.Typically, cantinas have simple d\u00e9cor, ageing waiters in formal uniforms and mariachi minstrels roaming around the tables. There are free nibbles (for example, botanas, a little bowl of shrimp soup, as shellfish is believed to be good for hangovers), but the lunch menu extends to such staples as sopa Azteca (chicken, chilli, cheese, corn tortillas and avocado), a few tacos filled with cochinita pibil (pork cooked with bitter oranges and chilli), birria de chivo (spicy goat kid stew) or torta de pavo (turkey slathered with nutty, hot and often chocolaty mole sauce between two large bits of bread.) The oldest of them all, with the licence number 001, was El Nivel. Opened in 1855, it was famous for a clientele that ran from presidents to revolutionaries, artists to bureaucrats, poets to street vendors. Its closure this year prompted a campaign organised by dedicated regulars. They remain adamant that it will reopen, but in the meantime here are some alternatives.  Over-the-top, unashamedly tacky and quite wonderful, El Tenampa is even more famous than El Nivel because it is on the tourist trail. The Salon Tenampa was opened in 1923 by a native of the state of Jalisco, where mariachis originated in the 19th century. It soon became the centre of mariachi activity in the capital as the bands left their folksy provincial image behind on their way to becoming spangle-suited popular icons of Mexicanness encouraged by post-revolutionary nation building. Most of the great singers of mariachi music have at least struck up a tune in the Tenampa, from the pencil moustached Pedro Infante to the more ebullient Vicente Fernandez, and the king of falsetto Miguel Aceves \u2013 and a good few are painted in murals on the walls.\u00b7 Plaza Garbialdi #12, Colonia Centro, salontenampa.com Open until 3am weekdays, 4am weekendsThe huge and rather elegant Covadonga is one of the few cantinas that has successfully turned traditional into trendy. The d\u00e9cor hasn\u00b4t changed that much, retaining the antique bar and square wooden tables that can easily be moved around to accommodate large groups, but the clientele has transformed from domino-playing regulars to the young on a retro night out. The menu features nominally Spanish food, with tortilla Espanola and jamon Serrano. Avoid the Roquefort salad - it is a disaster. \u00b7 Puebla #121, Colonia Roma. Open until 2am.A more down-to-earth model, Bar Montejo is a multi-floored pale yellow monstrosity that somehow manages to feel close to cosy. At its busiest on a Friday night when it fills with office workers loosening their ties, this really is a place dedicated to drinking and banter. The sopa de lima is a tasty option, a bitter lime chicken soup from the Yucatan peninsula, and suckling pig is the speciality. \u00b7 Benjamin Franklin #261. corner with Nuevo Leon, Colonia Condesa. Open until 1am.A small cantina with tiled walls and a pretty wooden bar right in the heart of the frenetically fashionable district of La Condesa. A drink here can feel refreshingly normal amid the kind of mixed crowd you might find in a local pub but will rarely come across in the restaurants outside. The prices, however, make no such concessions. Expect to pay about \u00a33 for a tequila that might cost you half that in a cantina in a less popping part of town.  Vicente Suarez #42, Colonia Condesa. Open until midnightLocated in a once grand area that has long since begun to crumble but is now undergoing a renaissance with the help of a slew of new private art galleries, El Polar is a classic in all senses. Except, that is, for its unusual claim to be a \"family cantina\". This leads to the rare sight of children accompanying their parents for a drink, and a certain cap on excess. It is also known for a dish called Oreja de Elephante - two large pieces of veal that look like an elephant\u00b4s ears.\u00b7 Guillermo Prieto 129, corner with Melchor Ocampo, Colonia San Rafael. Open until 1amOpened in 1876, La Opera is rather uncharacteristically ornate for a cantina. Amid the velvet drapes and chandeliers, you can order Huachinango a la Veracruzana (red snapper with olives and tomatoes), eel stuffed with avocado and a considerable selection of Spanish-style tapas from jamon Serrano to boquerones. But for all the flourishes, and the steady stream of tourists who find there way here, La Opera retains an aura of authenticity and a considerable dollop of charm. Look up at the bullet hole in the ceiling directly above one of the booths opposite the bar \u2013 it was reputedly put there by Pancho Villa.\u00b7 5 de Mayo #10, esquina con Filomena Mata, Colonia Centro. Open until 10.30pmA mid-sized cantina in a residential area with a relaxed atmosphere, Leon de Oro is one of the better places to actually have a conversation surrounded by others doing the same. It is also ideal for getting into the spirit of a national football match. Geometric stained glass windows in shades of gold and brown and golden domes add a touch of 60s and 70s kitsch to the interior. Locals swear by the tastiness of the lengua a la veracruzana (tongue with olives and tomatoes) and the quality of the tortillas. \u00b7 Avenida Marti #103, Colonia Escandon. Open until midnightThe Guadalupana has long been a favourite of the intelligentsia living in the colonial beauty of the Coyoacan area where Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Leon Troksky once roamed. It is also one of the few cantinas worth visiting in the south of the city. A recent makeover in a rather nondescript style has scrubbed away some of the charm of this simple cantina where the only music was the sound of people talking. It is still friendly and simple, but the pictures have come off the walls and the whole place seems a bit too squeaky clean for the genre. \u00b7 Higuera #2, Colonia Coyoacan. Open until midnightWorth a visit just for its oddness, La Faena occupies a large cavernous space in the bowels of an old building in the heart of the city centre. Bullfighting paintings, posters and photographs adorn the walls. The dust-covered displays in glass cases range from lights that no longer twinkle to mannequins decked out in the whole matador regalia striking suitably haughty poses.\u00b7 Venustiana Carranza 49-B, Colonia Centro. Open until 10pmTraditional cantina with formica-topped tables and adorned with murals of Mexican celebrities past and almost present, some dressed up as revolutionaries. These include the biggest stars of the golden age of Mexican cinema \u2013 Pedro Infante and Maria Felix. Popular nibbles on offer are huaraches (corn tortillas filled with refried beans) and pancita (tripe in a chilli broth).\u00b7 Division del norte 2216, Colonia Portales. Open until midnight", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Top 10s", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 cantinas in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-01-19T23:42:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The victims, all male, were blindfolded and gagged and had been shot in the head. The authorities in the city of Tijuana, near the US border, said the men had probably been abducted for ransom, or picked up for association with a rival gang.The three-hour battle between a handful of gunmen in a house and about 100 soldiers and police outside has highlighted fears that a military-led offensive aimed at quelling a gruesome turf war between drug cartels is turning into a more general conflict.Soldiers and state and local police were sent in to help control the gunfight, which began when federal agents prepared to raid a house police now say was a shelter for a cell of the Arellano F\u00e9lix drug cartel.Three nearby schools were evacuated, and television stations showed police running with small children in their arms while shots rang out.Edgar Millan, a spokesman with the federal public safety department, said the shootout killed one gunman and wounded four officers.Four gunmen were arrested - one is a state police investigator and another a Tijuana police officer, Millan said. The four will be flown to Mexico City for questioning. Millan said officials recovered 11 automatic rifles and three bulletproof vests inside the house.The bodies of the kidnap victims were hidden from view in the house. More than 2,500 people were killed in these kind of execution-style murders in Mexico last year. According to the newspaper El Universal, 142 have already died in 2008.", "tags": ["World news"], "title": "Kidnap victims found dead after Mexico gunfight"},{"date": "2008-03-04T16:57:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Javier Dom\u00ednguez Rivera had worked at the New York cereal factory before. Now he was hoping to return, bringing his two brothers and a girlfriend with him. But first the group had to negotiate the difficult journey from their home in Puebla, 60 miles south of Mexico City, across the US-Mexico border and on to New York.They crossed on foot in the barren desert of Arizona, near the town of Naco, where anti-illegal immigration groups have erected their own fence to keep out unwelcome visitors.But the crossing didn't go to plan. After spending hours hiking through the scrub and brush of the Sonora desert, the four had got just a mile and a half from the border. When they realised that the Border Patrol, the federal agency charged with policing the border, was close by, they decided to turn around and go back to Mexico to prepare to cross another day. When they were just 150 yards north of Mexico, the distinctive markings of a green and white Border Patrol vehicle appeared. What happened next is disputed, but the result is not: Dom\u00ednguez Rivera lay dead on the ground, killed by a shot fired by Border Patrol agent Nicholas Corbett.Last week, just over a year since the January 2007 shooting, Corbett went on trial in downtown Tucson, charged with second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide. Border Patrol agents have killed 12 people in the last two years; Corbett is the first to be tried for murder since 1994. Agent Corbett may take the stand for the defence today, probably the last day of testimony in his trial. If convicted of second-degree murder, he faces a sentence of 10-22 years; the lesser charge of negligent homicide carries a sentence of four-eight years.The trial comes at a time when tensions at the US-Mexico border are heightening. With immigration reform stalled, the federal government has worked to increase border security, beefing up Border Patrol numbers, building a fence along parts of the border and spending more than $85m trying - with little success - to build a \"virtual\" fence.In opening statements, Corbett's defence team portrayed the death of the 22-year-old as a case of self-defence by the 40-year-old agent. \"Nick Corbett had to defend himself, and he had to defend himself against Mr Dom\u00ednguez, who was trying to crush his skull with a rock,\" said defence attorney Sean Chapman. \"Nick Corbett did not want to shoot this man, but if he hadn't done it, he might be dead today.\"The prosecution, led by former Arizona attorney general Grant Woods, told a different story.\"This young man - while surrendering, going down on his knees, putting his hands in the air - from behind was hit, yanked and shot through the heart,\" Woods told the jury.\"We all respect the Border Patrol and law enforcement, but you don't kill somebody who is trying to surrender,\" he said.Taking the stand on Tuesday, Corbett said that he had been fending off Dom\u00ednguez Rivera, who was holding a rock and threatening him, when his gun went off.Summing up before the jury began its deliberations, Woods disputed Corbett's testimony, saying there had been no threat and that his actions amounted to a \"grave indifference\" and led to the young man's death.The three eye witnesses to the death took the stand for the prosecution, while Woods also called two Border Patrol agents who arrived at the scene shortly after the shooting, the lead detective on the case, and a forensics expert.In testimony to the court, the victim's brother, Jorge Dom\u00ednguez Rivera, said that when they saw Corbett's vehicle they decided to surrender, putting their hands in the air.As Corbett approached, pointing his gun at them, he said, they dropped to their knees. Corbett skidded to a halt, he said, and ran towards them. The agent put his gun in his left hand and it fired as he tried to push Javier to the ground with his right hand.\"The officer released him and took a step forward and my brother just held himself, said 'Ah' and just moaned\", before falling onto his back and going into convulsions, Jorge Dom\u00ednguez Rivera said.Using a hand-held radio, Corbett called for help. Another agent, Steve Berg, arrived on the scene within 90 seconds, to find Corbett trying to remove the clothing from around Dom\u00ednguez Rivera's wound. Corbett appeared to be in shock, he said. When a supervisor subsequently arrived, Berg said that he heard Corbett explain that the man had tried to attack him with a rock.The supervisor, Murray Adams, took the stand on Friday. He said that Corbett told him that he was holding his gun in both hands, came around his vehicle, saw a person moving to throw a rock at him, and shot him. Another Border Patrol officer, called to the stand by the defence yesterday, said that agents are taught that a rock is considered a deadly weapon, and that therefore the killing was justified.Forensic evidence from the scene shows that the gun that killed Dom\u00ednguez Rivera was fired three inches to one foot away from the him, and that he was shot from slightly behind at a downward angle.Defence attorneys argued that three Mexican witnesses had colluded in their account of the incident and had received guidance from the Mexican consulate. Another Border Patrol agent called by the defence testified that she had seen an official from the local Mexican consulate coaching the three Mexican witnesses through hand signals during an earlier court hearing. The prosecution disputed the account.In an earlier interview, Renato Dom\u00ednguez, the father of the dead man, denied that his son had been a \"delinquent\" or that the family was looking for a cash payout.\"The idea that a person can be a federal agent and behave like a psychopath is really incredible,\" he told Wick News Service. \"They have the power in their hands, and they abuse their authority. In my point of view, this man was either demented or an abuser of authority, or a racist.\"The jury began deliberations on Tuesday afternoon.", "tags": ["US news", "Mexico", "World news", "US immigration", "US domestic policy", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Death at US-Mexico border reflects immigration tensions"},{"date": "2008-01-02T22:39:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexicans down more soft drinks than any other nationality in the world, aside from Americans, and even their traditional diet is filled with fried food and sugar. Combine that with new sedentary urban lifestyles and you have a country that over the past decade has established itself as among the fattest in the world.With childhood obesity rates rising particularly fast it seems hardly surprising then that the education ministry would launch a new campaign to promote healthy diets among schoolchildren. What is less predictable, perhaps, is that the idea, as well as the funding, came from PepsiCo. Coca-Cola is sponsoring another school-based campaign, although it focuses exclusively on encouraging exercise.\"The private sector is worried alongside the government about what we can do about this problem,\" said Jorge Meyer, vice president of corporate affairs of PepsiCo in Mexico - the maker not only of Pepsi, but also of some of the most popular snacks in the market. \"We don't want to be seen as the guilty ones. We want to be seen as part of the solution.\"In Mexico, Meyer adds, the best solution does not involve removing junk food from schools and restricting child-focused advertising along the lines of recent self-regulatory agreements in the US and Europe. \"It isn't about whether soda is good or bad for you,\" he said. \"Here 80% of schools don't have drinking water so if there were no soda either what would the kids drink?\" North of the border, PepsiCo sells Aquafina water and Dole and Tropicana brand juices, among other non-carbonated drinks.The company's answer - called Live Healthily - aims to teach a million children in primary schools around the country that they should match the calories they consume with the calories they use up doing exercise.The centrepiece is a tamagotchi-like computer game in which a child called a nutrin must be guided through everyday decisions about what to buy, what to eat and what sports to play. Periodic visits to the doctor provide health checks.\"It's great,\" Cesar shouted above the din of digital yeehahs, boings, burps and jingles as his class wallowed in their weekly session. \"It teaches you what you should eat.\" The 10-year old's ample frame spilling over his chair belied his claim that he already eats mostly fruit and vegetables and drinks only water, but he was certainly having fun. The conversation was cut short when his nutrin began demanding attention: \"I'm hungry,\" it said.The impact of the programme is to be evaluated by a serious scientific study organised by the National Pediatric Institute but Richard Daynard, a Northeastern University professor and anti-tobacco dignitary turned obesity campaigner, discounts significant success.\"The kind of massive change in consumption behaviour that's needed never happens as a result of individual decision,\" he said. \"There have to be policies from the government that make these foods less available and more expensive, while healthier foods are more available and perhaps less expensive.\"It's a tough challenge in Mexico where it is harder to buy a banana than a doughnut in many a jungle village, and where the urban poor often have easier and cheaper access to cola than to water.Politicians also have tended to ignore the problem. A year ago the health aspects of a proposed 5% additional tax on soft drinks were hardly debated. It was eventually voted down by senators who argued it discriminated against the poor. The governing party briefly sought a compromise deal by proposing to restrict the levy to diet drinks.The climate changed this year, goaded along by figures from a 2006 national survey revealing that 72% of adults are now over overweight or obese - slightly higher than in the US. The same study holds that over a quarter of Mexican children between five and 11 are too heavy - a 40% increase since 2000. There was a 77% rise of obesity among boys.Last month the same opposition senators who voted down the soft drink tax introduced a bill to ban selling junk food inside schools, and the airwaves a filled by unusually direct government warnings that if you are overweight you have \"a hefty health problem\". Still government officials are unwilling to comment on how major players in the junk food industry became the highest profile motors behind the fight against childhood obesity.PepsiCo executive Meyer denies any irony or contradiction. Live Healthily, he insists, is not an attempt to whitewash the company's image or vaccinate it against restrictive legislation, and nor does it endanger sales. \"We are already producing nutritional products,\" he says. \"The problem is that Mexicans haven't wanted to buy them.\"As he swigged his soft drink outside the school gates Raul looked unlikely to be among the first converts. Did he know such habits help make children fat? The chubby 9-year old shrugged. When his mother arrived, they wondered off together to buy some potato chips.", "tags": ["World news", "Mexico", "Obesity", "Americas", "Pepsico"], "title": "PepsiCo is launching a campaign in Mexico to promote more healthful habits among Mexican"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-05-20T09:51:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Mexican donkey has landed itself in jail after biting and kicking two men.The animal was locked up in a holding pen normally used for keeping drunks off the streets after it lashed out at the pair at a ranch in Chiapas state, local police revealed yesterday. The owner of the angry ass, Mauro Gutierrez, has been told that he will have to pay the injured men's medical bills before the creature is released from custody.Genaro Vazquez, 63, told police that the unnamed donkey bit him in the chest on Sunday and then kicked 52-year-old Andres Hernandez as he tried to come to the rescue, fracturing his ankle. \"All of a sudden, the animal was on top of us like it was rabid,\" Hernandez said. It took six men to restrain the enraged beast, police said.Throwing non-humans in is nothing new in Chiapas. Previous animal inmates include a bull that devoured corn crops and destroyed two wooden vending stands in March. In 2006 a dog was locked up for 12 days after biting someone. His owners were fined US$18.Yesterday, a Chiapas police officer Sinar Gomez said the donkey would remain behind bars until its owner agreed to pay the men's $420 (\u00a3215) medical bills. \"Around here, if someone commits a crime they are jailed no matter who they are,\" said Gomez.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Donkey jailed in Mexico for violent behaviour"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-05-20T09:51:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Mexican donkey has landed itself in jail after biting and kicking two men.The animal was locked up in a holding pen normally used for keeping drunks off the streets after it lashed out at the pair at a ranch in Chiapas state, local police revealed yesterday. The owner of the angry ass, Mauro Gutierrez, has been told that he will have to pay the injured men's medical bills before the creature is released from custody.Genaro Vazquez, 63, told police that the unnamed donkey bit him in the chest on Sunday and then kicked 52-year-old Andres Hernandez as he tried to come to the rescue, fracturing his ankle. \"All of a sudden, the animal was on top of us like it was rabid,\" Hernandez said. It took six men to restrain the enraged beast, police said.Throwing non-humans in is nothing new in Chiapas. Previous animal inmates include a bull that devoured corn crops and destroyed two wooden vending stands in March. In 2006 a dog was locked up for 12 days after biting someone. His owners were fined US$18.Yesterday, a Chiapas police officer Sinar Gomez said the donkey would remain behind bars until its owner agreed to pay the men's $420 (\u00a3215) medical bills. \"Around here, if someone commits a crime they are jailed no matter who they are,\" said Gomez.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Donkey jailed in Mexico for violent behaviour"},{"date": "2008-05-03T08:54:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 6.30am and I was standing in pitch darkness on a mountain top in central Mexico, waiting for what the locals call the best show in town. It's clearly a misnomer: round here there's nothing resembling a town, and the only shows are the religious processions in the tiny villages to mark saints' days. But as a fire-red ribbon of light threaded itself on to the horizon, I saw what people were raving about. The cavernous valleys were filled with frothy white clouds: as daylight began to glow I got what looked like a God's-eye view of a giant cup of cappuccino, backlit for extra panache. We watched in silence, until the sun flooded the valley with daylight and the dawn spell was broken.Heroic sunrises are one of the highlights of this mountain region north east of Oaxaca city: but until recently no tourists ventured here. It's not that the mountains of the Sierra Norte are especially remote: in fact, they're only about a two-hour drive from the centre of town. The problem was lack of places to stay - and no one was promoting the mountains as a place to visit.Things changed when the state of Oaxaca got a new director of tourism who frequently travelled to Europe. His experiences there gave him an idea few Oaxacans thought would catch on, which was that - as in Europe - the mountains, as well as the cities and the beaches, could lure the tourists too. How, though, to provide an authentic taste of mountain life - and how, in a state that is aware of the sensitivities of ecotourism, to do it without compromising ordinary life in the hilltop villages? Los Pueblos Mancomunados - the mountain community closest to Oaxaca city - seemed uniquely placed to pioneer this new kind of tourism. Its members, descendents of the Zapotec people of pre-Hispanic Mexico, have farmed the land for more than 400 years, and in 1961 the government, in an extremely unusual move, agreed to give them the 29,500 hectares of land on which the community was living.Since then the people - only 3,800 in all - have eked out a living bottling spring water, selling fruit, mushrooms and bread at Oaxaca's markets. So when the director of tourism suggested they branch out into building wooden cabins in each of the area's eight villages, and welcoming tourists into the heart of their community, they leapt at the chance.The scheme - known as Tourist Yu'u (pronounced you) - began in the mid 1990s with eight beds in two cabins: now there are 290 beds in 64 cabins. It's simple, wholesome accommodation: mine was one of the most luxurious, in a village called Llano Grande (population 150). Set amid pine trees up a dirt track, it had two comfortable double beds, a wooden sofa and armchair, a small wardrobe and a coffee table. The bathroom was passable, though there was no loo seat and only a dribble of hot water for a shower.The villagers are proud of their mountains, and visitors to the lodges are offered an impressive array of activities. For around \u00a35 we hired a guide to take us trekking - worth every penny - and show us where to go for the best rambles through the valleys and across the hills to marvel at waterfalls and be wowed by breathtaking views across ravines and canyons. The area is acclaimed by the WWF for its huge diversity of wildlife, so you're bombarded with information about the local flora and fauna as well as let in on a few handed-down pre-Hispanic medicinal tips (a leaf called tolao is apparently perfect for hangovers - so much so that nightclubbers in the city are often given a couple of leaves on their way in to brew into a tea later). As well as hiking there are bicycles or horses for hire (around \u00a32.50 per hour), and for the more adventurous there are zip-wires strung between the pine trees in some areas. After all that exertion I took a temazcal or steam bath, with laurel leaves and other herbs, lying in what resembles an oven, wrapped only in a towel, for an hour or so, followed by a massage by the local medicine-woman. Champneys it definitely isn't - the medicine-woman, 81-year-old Manuela Luiz Martinez, plies her trade in a wooden hut with a slightly grubby bubble-gum pink nylon bedspread covering her massage table. But for a genuine soupcon of rural Mexican life, it doesn't come much more real than this - and all for around \u00a312, too, which is about the price of having your big toe massaged at Champney's.Evening entertainment isn't top priority in Pueblos Mancomunados. Just about all there is to do is amble down to one of the village fondas, or kitchen-cafes (there are one or two in each village) and have a beer as a local mother makes your tea over her firewood stove. Our cook was hampered by her two-month-old and two-year-old sons, so while she made our chicken tacos I held baby Alejandro and my husband chatted to toddler Miguel. We sandwiched our trip to the mountains between a couple of days exploring Oaxaca city and three days on the world-famous surfing strip at Puerto Escondido on the Pacific coast, a 30-minute flight away. But it's that Sierra Norte sunrise that will stay in my mind, even when the rest of the trip has faded.\u00b7 Book through Pueblos Mancomunados (sierranorte.org.mx). Cabanas \u00a323 a night, sleeping up to two adults and two children; camping \u00a32pp. After booking online, you're advised to confirm your reservation with the ecotourism office in Oaxaca city (Bravo No 210-1, Centro Historico, Oaxaca; 0052 1951 5148271). British Airways (ba.com) flies London-Mexico City for around \u00a3740 rtn.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel", "Green travel", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "Community Tourism in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-05-20T09:51:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Mexican donkey has landed itself in jail after biting and kicking two men.The animal was locked up in a holding pen normally used for keeping drunks off the streets after it lashed out at the pair at a ranch in Chiapas state, local police revealed yesterday. The owner of the angry ass, Mauro Gutierrez, has been told that he will have to pay the injured men's medical bills before the creature is released from custody.Genaro Vazquez, 63, told police that the unnamed donkey bit him in the chest on Sunday and then kicked 52-year-old Andres Hernandez as he tried to come to the rescue, fracturing his ankle. \"All of a sudden, the animal was on top of us like it was rabid,\" Hernandez said. It took six men to restrain the enraged beast, police said.Throwing non-humans in is nothing new in Chiapas. Previous animal inmates include a bull that devoured corn crops and destroyed two wooden vending stands in March. In 2006 a dog was locked up for 12 days after biting someone. His owners were fined US$18.Yesterday, a Chiapas police officer Sinar Gomez said the donkey would remain behind bars until its owner agreed to pay the men's $420 (\u00a3215) medical bills. \"Around here, if someone commits a crime they are jailed no matter who they are,\" said Gomez.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Donkey jailed in Mexico for violent behaviour"},{"date": "2008-05-03T08:54:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 6.30am and I was standing in pitch darkness on a mountain top in central Mexico, waiting for what the locals call the best show in town. It's clearly a misnomer: round here there's nothing resembling a town, and the only shows are the religious processions in the tiny villages to mark saints' days. But as a fire-red ribbon of light threaded itself on to the horizon, I saw what people were raving about. The cavernous valleys were filled with frothy white clouds: as daylight began to glow I got what looked like a God's-eye view of a giant cup of cappuccino, backlit for extra panache. We watched in silence, until the sun flooded the valley with daylight and the dawn spell was broken.Heroic sunrises are one of the highlights of this mountain region north east of Oaxaca city: but until recently no tourists ventured here. It's not that the mountains of the Sierra Norte are especially remote: in fact, they're only about a two-hour drive from the centre of town. The problem was lack of places to stay - and no one was promoting the mountains as a place to visit.Things changed when the state of Oaxaca got a new director of tourism who frequently travelled to Europe. His experiences there gave him an idea few Oaxacans thought would catch on, which was that - as in Europe - the mountains, as well as the cities and the beaches, could lure the tourists too. How, though, to provide an authentic taste of mountain life - and how, in a state that is aware of the sensitivities of ecotourism, to do it without compromising ordinary life in the hilltop villages? Los Pueblos Mancomunados - the mountain community closest to Oaxaca city - seemed uniquely placed to pioneer this new kind of tourism. Its members, descendents of the Zapotec people of pre-Hispanic Mexico, have farmed the land for more than 400 years, and in 1961 the government, in an extremely unusual move, agreed to give them the 29,500 hectares of land on which the community was living.Since then the people - only 3,800 in all - have eked out a living bottling spring water, selling fruit, mushrooms and bread at Oaxaca's markets. So when the director of tourism suggested they branch out into building wooden cabins in each of the area's eight villages, and welcoming tourists into the heart of their community, they leapt at the chance.The scheme - known as Tourist Yu'u (pronounced you) - began in the mid 1990s with eight beds in two cabins: now there are 290 beds in 64 cabins. It's simple, wholesome accommodation: mine was one of the most luxurious, in a village called Llano Grande (population 150). Set amid pine trees up a dirt track, it had two comfortable double beds, a wooden sofa and armchair, a small wardrobe and a coffee table. The bathroom was passable, though there was no loo seat and only a dribble of hot water for a shower.The villagers are proud of their mountains, and visitors to the lodges are offered an impressive array of activities. For around \u00a35 we hired a guide to take us trekking - worth every penny - and show us where to go for the best rambles through the valleys and across the hills to marvel at waterfalls and be wowed by breathtaking views across ravines and canyons. The area is acclaimed by the WWF for its huge diversity of wildlife, so you're bombarded with information about the local flora and fauna as well as let in on a few handed-down pre-Hispanic medicinal tips (a leaf called tolao is apparently perfect for hangovers - so much so that nightclubbers in the city are often given a couple of leaves on their way in to brew into a tea later). As well as hiking there are bicycles or horses for hire (around \u00a32.50 per hour), and for the more adventurous there are zip-wires strung between the pine trees in some areas. After all that exertion I took a temazcal or steam bath, with laurel leaves and other herbs, lying in what resembles an oven, wrapped only in a towel, for an hour or so, followed by a massage by the local medicine-woman. Champneys it definitely isn't - the medicine-woman, 81-year-old Manuela Luiz Martinez, plies her trade in a wooden hut with a slightly grubby bubble-gum pink nylon bedspread covering her massage table. But for a genuine soupcon of rural Mexican life, it doesn't come much more real than this - and all for around \u00a312, too, which is about the price of having your big toe massaged at Champney's.Evening entertainment isn't top priority in Pueblos Mancomunados. Just about all there is to do is amble down to one of the village fondas, or kitchen-cafes (there are one or two in each village) and have a beer as a local mother makes your tea over her firewood stove. Our cook was hampered by her two-month-old and two-year-old sons, so while she made our chicken tacos I held baby Alejandro and my husband chatted to toddler Miguel. We sandwiched our trip to the mountains between a couple of days exploring Oaxaca city and three days on the world-famous surfing strip at Puerto Escondido on the Pacific coast, a 30-minute flight away. But it's that Sierra Norte sunrise that will stay in my mind, even when the rest of the trip has faded.\u00b7 Book through Pueblos Mancomunados (sierranorte.org.mx). Cabanas \u00a323 a night, sleeping up to two adults and two children; camping \u00a32pp. After booking online, you're advised to confirm your reservation with the ecotourism office in Oaxaca city (Bravo No 210-1, Centro Historico, Oaxaca; 0052 1951 5148271). British Airways (ba.com) flies London-Mexico City for around \u00a3740 rtn.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel", "Green travel", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "Community Tourism in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Food manufacturers in Mexico have promised to freeze prices on many of their most commonly consumed products until the end of the year .President Felipe Calder\u00f3n presented the measure as an important contribution to ameliorating the local effects of the global food crisis. \"This reflects a commitment by Mexican entrepreneurs with the country,\" he said. \"It will positively and directly help the finances of millions of Mexicans.\" The 150 products on the list, worked out in negotiations with the government, include tinned refried beans and tomatoes, fruit juices, ketchup, and canned chillies. Non-processed foods are not included. Unions welcomed the move, although they pointed out that the prices of many of the products listed have already increased enormously this year. Cooking oil, for example, has risen by more than 50% and will be capped only until the end of August under the agreement. The length of the list is also misleading as some products have been included several times, in different sizes and presentations.This is the second step announced by the centre-right Calder\u00f3n administration this year that is designed to help control inflation, which stands at nearly 5%, as well as head off the kind of protests already breaking out in other countries as food prices rise worldwide. The first package, announced in May, included the elimination of import tariffs on basic grains, and a 120 peso (\u00a35) monthly subsidy for 26 million Mexican families already enrolled in poverty alleviation programmes. That package was dismissed as a sham by many on the left who pointed out that tariffs are already low, and that an extra 4 pesos a day is not enough to make a difference to most families.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico freezes food prices in response to global crisis"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-05-20T09:51:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Mexican donkey has landed itself in jail after biting and kicking two men.The animal was locked up in a holding pen normally used for keeping drunks off the streets after it lashed out at the pair at a ranch in Chiapas state, local police revealed yesterday. The owner of the angry ass, Mauro Gutierrez, has been told that he will have to pay the injured men's medical bills before the creature is released from custody.Genaro Vazquez, 63, told police that the unnamed donkey bit him in the chest on Sunday and then kicked 52-year-old Andres Hernandez as he tried to come to the rescue, fracturing his ankle. \"All of a sudden, the animal was on top of us like it was rabid,\" Hernandez said. It took six men to restrain the enraged beast, police said.Throwing non-humans in is nothing new in Chiapas. Previous animal inmates include a bull that devoured corn crops and destroyed two wooden vending stands in March. In 2006 a dog was locked up for 12 days after biting someone. His owners were fined US$18.Yesterday, a Chiapas police officer Sinar Gomez said the donkey would remain behind bars until its owner agreed to pay the men's $420 (\u00a3215) medical bills. \"Around here, if someone commits a crime they are jailed no matter who they are,\" said Gomez.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Donkey jailed in Mexico for violent behaviour"},{"date": "2008-05-03T08:54:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 6.30am and I was standing in pitch darkness on a mountain top in central Mexico, waiting for what the locals call the best show in town. It's clearly a misnomer: round here there's nothing resembling a town, and the only shows are the religious processions in the tiny villages to mark saints' days. But as a fire-red ribbon of light threaded itself on to the horizon, I saw what people were raving about. The cavernous valleys were filled with frothy white clouds: as daylight began to glow I got what looked like a God's-eye view of a giant cup of cappuccino, backlit for extra panache. We watched in silence, until the sun flooded the valley with daylight and the dawn spell was broken.Heroic sunrises are one of the highlights of this mountain region north east of Oaxaca city: but until recently no tourists ventured here. It's not that the mountains of the Sierra Norte are especially remote: in fact, they're only about a two-hour drive from the centre of town. The problem was lack of places to stay - and no one was promoting the mountains as a place to visit.Things changed when the state of Oaxaca got a new director of tourism who frequently travelled to Europe. His experiences there gave him an idea few Oaxacans thought would catch on, which was that - as in Europe - the mountains, as well as the cities and the beaches, could lure the tourists too. How, though, to provide an authentic taste of mountain life - and how, in a state that is aware of the sensitivities of ecotourism, to do it without compromising ordinary life in the hilltop villages? Los Pueblos Mancomunados - the mountain community closest to Oaxaca city - seemed uniquely placed to pioneer this new kind of tourism. Its members, descendents of the Zapotec people of pre-Hispanic Mexico, have farmed the land for more than 400 years, and in 1961 the government, in an extremely unusual move, agreed to give them the 29,500 hectares of land on which the community was living.Since then the people - only 3,800 in all - have eked out a living bottling spring water, selling fruit, mushrooms and bread at Oaxaca's markets. So when the director of tourism suggested they branch out into building wooden cabins in each of the area's eight villages, and welcoming tourists into the heart of their community, they leapt at the chance.The scheme - known as Tourist Yu'u (pronounced you) - began in the mid 1990s with eight beds in two cabins: now there are 290 beds in 64 cabins. It's simple, wholesome accommodation: mine was one of the most luxurious, in a village called Llano Grande (population 150). Set amid pine trees up a dirt track, it had two comfortable double beds, a wooden sofa and armchair, a small wardrobe and a coffee table. The bathroom was passable, though there was no loo seat and only a dribble of hot water for a shower.The villagers are proud of their mountains, and visitors to the lodges are offered an impressive array of activities. For around \u00a35 we hired a guide to take us trekking - worth every penny - and show us where to go for the best rambles through the valleys and across the hills to marvel at waterfalls and be wowed by breathtaking views across ravines and canyons. The area is acclaimed by the WWF for its huge diversity of wildlife, so you're bombarded with information about the local flora and fauna as well as let in on a few handed-down pre-Hispanic medicinal tips (a leaf called tolao is apparently perfect for hangovers - so much so that nightclubbers in the city are often given a couple of leaves on their way in to brew into a tea later). As well as hiking there are bicycles or horses for hire (around \u00a32.50 per hour), and for the more adventurous there are zip-wires strung between the pine trees in some areas. After all that exertion I took a temazcal or steam bath, with laurel leaves and other herbs, lying in what resembles an oven, wrapped only in a towel, for an hour or so, followed by a massage by the local medicine-woman. Champneys it definitely isn't - the medicine-woman, 81-year-old Manuela Luiz Martinez, plies her trade in a wooden hut with a slightly grubby bubble-gum pink nylon bedspread covering her massage table. But for a genuine soupcon of rural Mexican life, it doesn't come much more real than this - and all for around \u00a312, too, which is about the price of having your big toe massaged at Champney's.Evening entertainment isn't top priority in Pueblos Mancomunados. Just about all there is to do is amble down to one of the village fondas, or kitchen-cafes (there are one or two in each village) and have a beer as a local mother makes your tea over her firewood stove. Our cook was hampered by her two-month-old and two-year-old sons, so while she made our chicken tacos I held baby Alejandro and my husband chatted to toddler Miguel. We sandwiched our trip to the mountains between a couple of days exploring Oaxaca city and three days on the world-famous surfing strip at Puerto Escondido on the Pacific coast, a 30-minute flight away. But it's that Sierra Norte sunrise that will stay in my mind, even when the rest of the trip has faded.\u00b7 Book through Pueblos Mancomunados (sierranorte.org.mx). Cabanas \u00a323 a night, sleeping up to two adults and two children; camping \u00a32pp. After booking online, you're advised to confirm your reservation with the ecotourism office in Oaxaca city (Bravo No 210-1, Centro Historico, Oaxaca; 0052 1951 5148271). British Airways (ba.com) flies London-Mexico City for around \u00a3740 rtn.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel", "Green travel", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "Community Tourism in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Food manufacturers in Mexico have promised to freeze prices on many of their most commonly consumed products until the end of the year .President Felipe Calder\u00f3n presented the measure as an important contribution to ameliorating the local effects of the global food crisis. \"This reflects a commitment by Mexican entrepreneurs with the country,\" he said. \"It will positively and directly help the finances of millions of Mexicans.\" The 150 products on the list, worked out in negotiations with the government, include tinned refried beans and tomatoes, fruit juices, ketchup, and canned chillies. Non-processed foods are not included. Unions welcomed the move, although they pointed out that the prices of many of the products listed have already increased enormously this year. Cooking oil, for example, has risen by more than 50% and will be capped only until the end of August under the agreement. The length of the list is also misleading as some products have been included several times, in different sizes and presentations.This is the second step announced by the centre-right Calder\u00f3n administration this year that is designed to help control inflation, which stands at nearly 5%, as well as head off the kind of protests already breaking out in other countries as food prices rise worldwide. The first package, announced in May, included the elimination of import tariffs on basic grains, and a 120 peso (\u00a35) monthly subsidy for 26 million Mexican families already enrolled in poverty alleviation programmes. That package was dismissed as a sham by many on the left who pointed out that tariffs are already low, and that an extra 4 pesos a day is not enough to make a difference to most families.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico freezes food prices in response to global crisis"},{"date": "2008-05-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "President Felipe Calder\u00f3n this weekend pledged \u00a321m to 'rescue' Acapulco, the Pacific resort whose sewage-stained beaches are barely recognisable from its 1950s heyday. Calder\u00f3n said he would spend 440m pesos over four years to improve sanitation services in Acapulco, which is struggling with an explosion in its local population and of the luxury hotels that draw hordes of US spring break tourists and weekend visitors from Mexico City.Tourism is one of Mexico's main economic motors and Calder\u00f3n vowed during his 2006 election campaign to restore the Pacific coast resort to its former glory. Once a sparkling playground for the Hollywood set, including Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth, Acapulco has grown grubbier as the city has expanded and its tourism industry has ballooned. Six million tourists visit the resort each year. But barely treated sewage and waste water flow into its famous bay, leaving the sea murky brown and foamy in places, and egg-like odours hang over the port's pretty central square. The lack of infrastructure means poor families living in the city's outskirts suffer water shortages while foreigners splash about in bubbling hot tubs and landscaped swimming pools in hotels along the seafront. Calder\u00f3n said he would bring clean water to poor neighbourhoods, improve the city's drains and upgrade sewage treatment plants. 'This is an indispensable step to improve the quality of life for all the local residents as well as the more than six million national and international tourists,' he said. Acapulco, famed for its huge crescent-shaped bay, has also been scarred by the presence of child-sex tourists and by rising crime after being sucked into a turf war between violent drug cartels.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Mexico holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Waste", "Recycling", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico will spend \u00a321m to clean up Acapulco"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City markets were flooded with export-quality tomatoes yesterday after a salmonella scare in the US stopped them crossing the border.There is no proof that the contaminated tomatoes in the US came from Mexico. The US Food and Drug Administration is still tracing the source of the outbreak that has left at least 167 people ill since mid-April.The FDA has cleared imports from at least six countries but not Mexico, which sends 80% of its tomato exports to the United States. Florida tomatoes are also under suspicion. But some US consumers already associate the outbreak with Mexican produce, and exports from Baja California came to a halt this week.Jesus Macias, the sales manager at the Productora Agricola Industrial del Noreste, normally ships 50,000 boxes a day to California. Since the scare, \"we can't sell a single box of tomatoes\", he said. Instead, he is shipping his top quality tomatoes to Mexican markets, and letting the lesser-quality produce rot.In Mexico City consumers can now buy top quality tomatoes for a third less than normal prices.Mexican officials insist there's nothing to worry about. \"The Mexican tomato is safer and cleaner than ever,\" the agriculture secretary, Alberto C\u00e1rdenas, told Televisa network yesterday. Even US officials agree that certified Mexican exporters are among the safest in the world. Vegetables sold on the national market are not subject to the same standards. Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Salmonella scare leaves Mexico in red"},{"date": "2008-06-10T10:28:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of an Aztec palace once inhabited by the emperor Montezuma have been discovered in the heart of downtown Mexico City, archaeologists said today.During a routine renovation project on a colonial-era building, experts uncovered pieces of a wall as well as a basalt floor believed to have been part of a dark room where Montezuma meditated, team leader Elsa Hernandez said.Montezuma was the Aztec emperor when Spanish conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s marched into the Mexico Valley in 1519. He died after being taken hostage by the Spaniards, while the city and the Aztec empire fell in 1521.His palace complex, known as the Casas Nuevas, or New Houses, to distinguish them from his predecessors' palaces, is thought to have comprised five interconnected buildings containing the emperor's office, chambers for children and several wives and even a zoo.The Aztec constructions were razed by the Spanish, who built what is now Mexico City atop their ruins. Experts had long thought Montezuma's palace stood roughly on the site where the ruins were found, next door to the National Palace, said Hernandez.She described the find as \"another piece of a puzzle\". Excavations are planned beneath several parts of the colonial building, which now houses the Museum of Culture.The basalt floor most likely belongs to the Casa Denegrida, or the Black House, which Spanish conquerors described as a windowless room painted in black, said Hernandez. The emperor was believed to have reflected there on visions recounted by professional seers and shamans.His reliance on such predictions may have contributed to his downfall, possibly prompting him to initially mistake the conquistadors for divine figures.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Archaeology", "Americas"], "title": "Archaeologists uncover Aztec palace in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-05-29T15:10:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In US political maths, Florida is considered the ultimate battleground. But the home of the 2000 recount has not been the most competitive state during the past two presidential elections. Nor was Ohio, despite its controversial role in George Bush's 2004 re-election. The biggest new battleground in America is an unlikely one: New Mexico. Mostly rural and famously quirky, with a total population just shy of the city of Las Vegas', the state chose Al Gore in 2000 by a mere 300 votes. Bush won New Mexico in 2004 by only 6,000 votes.With the Democratic primaries coming to a close last week, both Barack Obama and John McCain laid claim to the state's five electoral votes in duelling speeches on the Memorial Day holiday.No sooner had the presidential hopefuls departed than Bush swung through New Mexico to raise more than $300,000 in two hours for the congressional campaign of Darren White, a popular county sheriff.Times have changed, however, since White served as Bush's state re-election chairman. The sheriff did not appear publicly alongside the president, and local Democrats staged a protest of the Bush visit that featured White's likely opponent, Martin Heinrich.Why is New Mexico, which offers one-fourteenth of the electoral votes needed to win the presidency, so pivotal? The answer lies in the map. If Obama won each state that chose John Kerry in 2004 - a much less promising year for Democrats - he would emerge 18 electoral votes short of the presidency. Victory in Ohio or Florida alone would put Obama over the top. But working-class Democrats in Ohio have hesitated to embrace Obama, and the tussle over seating Florida's delegates has put his party in a poor position. What's more, the 2000 and 2004 elections have shown that counting on one state to deliver victory often backfires. If Obama can follow in Gore's footsteps by winning Iowa, the scene of his first primary win in January, he could beat McCain by winning only two of the three so-called \"mountain west\" states: Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico.\"When you look at New Mexico, Colorado, Nevada, you look at how the elections have been trending there and you look what the people in the west are concerned about, it's going to be a good match for Obama,\" Arizona governor Janet Napolitano told MSNBC this week.Obama has two potent weapons in New Mexico, which is the fifth largest US state by size but ranks 36th out of 50 in population.The first is Bill Richardson, the state's governor and former Bill Clinton adviser who broke ranks to endorse Obama. Richardson hosted Michelle Obama at two New Mexico fundraisers this week, boosting his standing on the vice-presidential shortlist.The second benefit to Obama comes from the wild free-for-all in the state congressional ranks. One of New Mexico's two Senate seats opened up this year for the first time since 1982 - a possible promotion so enticing that the state's entire delegation in the House of Representatives leaped into the contest. Now every congressional seat in New Mexico is up for grabs.In a state where registered Democratic voters outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000, the astonishing number of elections in New Mexico could boost voter turnout for Obama.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "US news", "Barack Obama", "John McCain", "World news", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico - the ultimate battleground state"},{"date": "2008-05-20T09:51:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Mexican donkey has landed itself in jail after biting and kicking two men.The animal was locked up in a holding pen normally used for keeping drunks off the streets after it lashed out at the pair at a ranch in Chiapas state, local police revealed yesterday. The owner of the angry ass, Mauro Gutierrez, has been told that he will have to pay the injured men's medical bills before the creature is released from custody.Genaro Vazquez, 63, told police that the unnamed donkey bit him in the chest on Sunday and then kicked 52-year-old Andres Hernandez as he tried to come to the rescue, fracturing his ankle. \"All of a sudden, the animal was on top of us like it was rabid,\" Hernandez said. It took six men to restrain the enraged beast, police said.Throwing non-humans in is nothing new in Chiapas. Previous animal inmates include a bull that devoured corn crops and destroyed two wooden vending stands in March. In 2006 a dog was locked up for 12 days after biting someone. His owners were fined US$18.Yesterday, a Chiapas police officer Sinar Gomez said the donkey would remain behind bars until its owner agreed to pay the men's $420 (\u00a3215) medical bills. \"Around here, if someone commits a crime they are jailed no matter who they are,\" said Gomez.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Donkey jailed in Mexico for violent behaviour"},{"date": "2008-05-03T08:54:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 6.30am and I was standing in pitch darkness on a mountain top in central Mexico, waiting for what the locals call the best show in town. It's clearly a misnomer: round here there's nothing resembling a town, and the only shows are the religious processions in the tiny villages to mark saints' days. But as a fire-red ribbon of light threaded itself on to the horizon, I saw what people were raving about. The cavernous valleys were filled with frothy white clouds: as daylight began to glow I got what looked like a God's-eye view of a giant cup of cappuccino, backlit for extra panache. We watched in silence, until the sun flooded the valley with daylight and the dawn spell was broken.Heroic sunrises are one of the highlights of this mountain region north east of Oaxaca city: but until recently no tourists ventured here. It's not that the mountains of the Sierra Norte are especially remote: in fact, they're only about a two-hour drive from the centre of town. The problem was lack of places to stay - and no one was promoting the mountains as a place to visit.Things changed when the state of Oaxaca got a new director of tourism who frequently travelled to Europe. His experiences there gave him an idea few Oaxacans thought would catch on, which was that - as in Europe - the mountains, as well as the cities and the beaches, could lure the tourists too. How, though, to provide an authentic taste of mountain life - and how, in a state that is aware of the sensitivities of ecotourism, to do it without compromising ordinary life in the hilltop villages? Los Pueblos Mancomunados - the mountain community closest to Oaxaca city - seemed uniquely placed to pioneer this new kind of tourism. Its members, descendents of the Zapotec people of pre-Hispanic Mexico, have farmed the land for more than 400 years, and in 1961 the government, in an extremely unusual move, agreed to give them the 29,500 hectares of land on which the community was living.Since then the people - only 3,800 in all - have eked out a living bottling spring water, selling fruit, mushrooms and bread at Oaxaca's markets. So when the director of tourism suggested they branch out into building wooden cabins in each of the area's eight villages, and welcoming tourists into the heart of their community, they leapt at the chance.The scheme - known as Tourist Yu'u (pronounced you) - began in the mid 1990s with eight beds in two cabins: now there are 290 beds in 64 cabins. It's simple, wholesome accommodation: mine was one of the most luxurious, in a village called Llano Grande (population 150). Set amid pine trees up a dirt track, it had two comfortable double beds, a wooden sofa and armchair, a small wardrobe and a coffee table. The bathroom was passable, though there was no loo seat and only a dribble of hot water for a shower.The villagers are proud of their mountains, and visitors to the lodges are offered an impressive array of activities. For around \u00a35 we hired a guide to take us trekking - worth every penny - and show us where to go for the best rambles through the valleys and across the hills to marvel at waterfalls and be wowed by breathtaking views across ravines and canyons. The area is acclaimed by the WWF for its huge diversity of wildlife, so you're bombarded with information about the local flora and fauna as well as let in on a few handed-down pre-Hispanic medicinal tips (a leaf called tolao is apparently perfect for hangovers - so much so that nightclubbers in the city are often given a couple of leaves on their way in to brew into a tea later). As well as hiking there are bicycles or horses for hire (around \u00a32.50 per hour), and for the more adventurous there are zip-wires strung between the pine trees in some areas. After all that exertion I took a temazcal or steam bath, with laurel leaves and other herbs, lying in what resembles an oven, wrapped only in a towel, for an hour or so, followed by a massage by the local medicine-woman. Champneys it definitely isn't - the medicine-woman, 81-year-old Manuela Luiz Martinez, plies her trade in a wooden hut with a slightly grubby bubble-gum pink nylon bedspread covering her massage table. But for a genuine soupcon of rural Mexican life, it doesn't come much more real than this - and all for around \u00a312, too, which is about the price of having your big toe massaged at Champney's.Evening entertainment isn't top priority in Pueblos Mancomunados. Just about all there is to do is amble down to one of the village fondas, or kitchen-cafes (there are one or two in each village) and have a beer as a local mother makes your tea over her firewood stove. Our cook was hampered by her two-month-old and two-year-old sons, so while she made our chicken tacos I held baby Alejandro and my husband chatted to toddler Miguel. We sandwiched our trip to the mountains between a couple of days exploring Oaxaca city and three days on the world-famous surfing strip at Puerto Escondido on the Pacific coast, a 30-minute flight away. But it's that Sierra Norte sunrise that will stay in my mind, even when the rest of the trip has faded.\u00b7 Book through Pueblos Mancomunados (sierranorte.org.mx). Cabanas \u00a323 a night, sleeping up to two adults and two children; camping \u00a32pp. After booking online, you're advised to confirm your reservation with the ecotourism office in Oaxaca city (Bravo No 210-1, Centro Historico, Oaxaca; 0052 1951 5148271). British Airways (ba.com) flies London-Mexico City for around \u00a3740 rtn.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel", "Green travel", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "Community Tourism in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Food manufacturers in Mexico have promised to freeze prices on many of their most commonly consumed products until the end of the year .President Felipe Calder\u00f3n presented the measure as an important contribution to ameliorating the local effects of the global food crisis. \"This reflects a commitment by Mexican entrepreneurs with the country,\" he said. \"It will positively and directly help the finances of millions of Mexicans.\" The 150 products on the list, worked out in negotiations with the government, include tinned refried beans and tomatoes, fruit juices, ketchup, and canned chillies. Non-processed foods are not included. Unions welcomed the move, although they pointed out that the prices of many of the products listed have already increased enormously this year. Cooking oil, for example, has risen by more than 50% and will be capped only until the end of August under the agreement. The length of the list is also misleading as some products have been included several times, in different sizes and presentations.This is the second step announced by the centre-right Calder\u00f3n administration this year that is designed to help control inflation, which stands at nearly 5%, as well as head off the kind of protests already breaking out in other countries as food prices rise worldwide. The first package, announced in May, included the elimination of import tariffs on basic grains, and a 120 peso (\u00a35) monthly subsidy for 26 million Mexican families already enrolled in poverty alleviation programmes. That package was dismissed as a sham by many on the left who pointed out that tariffs are already low, and that an extra 4 pesos a day is not enough to make a difference to most families.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico freezes food prices in response to global crisis"},{"date": "2008-05-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "President Felipe Calder\u00f3n this weekend pledged \u00a321m to 'rescue' Acapulco, the Pacific resort whose sewage-stained beaches are barely recognisable from its 1950s heyday. Calder\u00f3n said he would spend 440m pesos over four years to improve sanitation services in Acapulco, which is struggling with an explosion in its local population and of the luxury hotels that draw hordes of US spring break tourists and weekend visitors from Mexico City.Tourism is one of Mexico's main economic motors and Calder\u00f3n vowed during his 2006 election campaign to restore the Pacific coast resort to its former glory. Once a sparkling playground for the Hollywood set, including Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth, Acapulco has grown grubbier as the city has expanded and its tourism industry has ballooned. Six million tourists visit the resort each year. But barely treated sewage and waste water flow into its famous bay, leaving the sea murky brown and foamy in places, and egg-like odours hang over the port's pretty central square. The lack of infrastructure means poor families living in the city's outskirts suffer water shortages while foreigners splash about in bubbling hot tubs and landscaped swimming pools in hotels along the seafront. Calder\u00f3n said he would bring clean water to poor neighbourhoods, improve the city's drains and upgrade sewage treatment plants. 'This is an indispensable step to improve the quality of life for all the local residents as well as the more than six million national and international tourists,' he said. Acapulco, famed for its huge crescent-shaped bay, has also been scarred by the presence of child-sex tourists and by rising crime after being sucked into a turf war between violent drug cartels.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Mexico holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Waste", "Recycling", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico will spend \u00a321m to clean up Acapulco"},{"date": "2008-05-16T19:14:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A group of Texas mayors and businessmen sued the Bush administration today over its planned fence along the Mexico border, saying they were forced to give up their property rights.The Texas Border Coalition, as the group is known, accuses the US department of homeland security (DHS) of swindling landowners out of their property rights using threats of legal action and $100 cash payments.\"We shouldn't be building walls,\" Pat Ahumada, mayor of the border town of Brownsville, said. \"We should be building alliances with Mexico. The wall is not the solution.\"Lawyers for the border group are aiming to force a second look at some land purchases and a stay in construction of the 670-mile border fence, about half of which is already completed. The fence has already drawn court challenges from two leading US environmental groups, the Defenders of Wildlife and the Sierra Club. Homeland security officials waived more than 30 conservation laws in their rush to complete construction of the fence, aimed at deterring illegal immigration, before Bush leaves office. A DHS spokeswoman said the administration has \"nearly bent over backward\" in dealings with 600 landowners in the four states that border Mexico: Texas, California, Arizona and New Mexico.The border group echoed questions that Democrats have raised about Texas oil magnate Ray Hunt, whose land the fence is scheduled to bypass. Hunt recently gave $35m to help his friend George Bush build a presidential library at a Texas university.The Democratic Congress has vowed to take up the border fence this year, although the political volatility of immigration reform could derail any meaningful action during this presidential election year.About half of the planned border fence will be made of reinforced concrete, with vehicle barriers comprising the rest of its length. The Berlin wall, by contrast, was 96 miles long, while the security fence on the border between Israel and Palestine will measure about 430 miles when completed.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "George Bush", "Politics", "US politics"], "title": "Texans sue Bush administration over Mexico border fence"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court yesterday upheld the capital's abortion law by dismissing a challenge brought by the conservative federal government by eight votes to three.The law, in effect since April last year, requires Mexico City health services to provide free terminations to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.The chief federal prosecutor and the national human rights ombudsman took the case to the supreme court, arguing that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliged the authorities to prioritise the protection of every unborn child, from the moment of conception, over a woman's right to choose. A formal vote by the 11 supreme court justices was delivered yesterday, but over the course of a televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the justices made clear they disagreed with the challenge.Along with Cuba, Mexico City has the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. Fearful of exposing divisions in a country that values its anticlerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage, politicians and bishops had avoided the abortion question for decades. The laws of most Mexican states allow terminations in cases of rape, risk to the mother's life or severe foetal deformities. In practice almost no states offer abortions in such cases. However, nor do they prosecute the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions or the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners. Many thought this compromise would end when the Catholic conservative National Action party won the 2000 general election, after 71 years of rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right remained wary and it was left to the capital's leftwing authority to pass legislation. Feminists want abortion on demand across Mexico. A fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital had gone there from elsewhere in Mexico.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Judges uphold abortion rights in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court yesterday upheld the capital's abortion law by dismissing a challenge brought by the conservative federal government by eight votes to three.The law, in effect since April last year, requires Mexico City health services to provide free terminations to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.The chief federal prosecutor and the national human rights ombudsman took the case to the supreme court, arguing that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliged the authorities to prioritise the protection of every unborn child, from the moment of conception, over a woman's right to choose. A formal vote by the 11 supreme court justices was delivered yesterday, but over the course of a televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the justices made clear they disagreed with the challenge.Along with Cuba, Mexico City has the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. Fearful of exposing divisions in a country that values its anticlerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage, politicians and bishops had avoided the abortion question for decades. The laws of most Mexican states allow terminations in cases of rape, risk to the mother's life or severe foetal deformities. In practice almost no states offer abortions in such cases. However, nor do they prosecute the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions or the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners. Many thought this compromise would end when the Catholic conservative National Action party won the 2000 general election, after 71 years of rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right remained wary and it was left to the capital's leftwing authority to pass legislation. Feminists want abortion on demand across Mexico. A fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital had gone there from elsewhere in Mexico.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Judges uphold abortion rights in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-08-28T08:39:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court will uphold trailblazing abortion laws in the capital by dismissing a challenge from the conservative federal government.Mexico City's law, in effect since April last year, requires city health services to provide a free abortion to any woman who seeks it up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.It was challenged in the supreme court by the chief federal prosecutor, which is a cabinet post in Mexico, and the national human rights ombudsman. They argued that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliges the authorities to protect an unborn child from the moment of conception, overriding a woman's right to determine what happens to her body.In a lengthy and televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the 11 justices said they would dismiss the challenge. A decision is due within days, possibly today.Mexico City sits alongside Cuba in having the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. One country \u2013 Nicaragua \u2013 has prohibited abortion in all cases since 2006.The law has shattered the longstanding suppression of the abortion debate in Mexico. Politicians and bishops had avoided touching the question for decades, fearful of exposing bitter divisions in a country that values its anti-clerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage.The laws of most Mexican states, as was the case in Mexico City, allow terminations in cases of rape, danger to the mother's life or catastrophic deformations of the foetus. But in practice, very few women in these situations get the option. The states do not prosecute either the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions for those with money, or the life-threatening backstreet practitioners used by the poor.Many expected tighter controls when the Catholic conservative National Action party took control of the federal government in 2000, after 71 years of one-party rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right wing remained wary of upsetting the status quo.The leftwing administration in Mexico City eventually took on the taboo, and the discussion has stretched far beyond the supreme court to become an unprecedented national debate. Anti-abortion activists have blasted passers-by with the sound of foetal heart beats, while the Catholic hierarchy ran anti-abortion television commercials in prime time. Feminists have shouted their determination to push for abortion on demand elsewhere in Mexico.About a fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital travelled from elsewhere in the country. There are no figures available for the private sector.The majority of public doctors have declared themselves conscientious objectors and refused to do abortions, forcing the city to set up special clinics, some of which have been picketed by activists.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christianity", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Religion", "Americas"], "title": "Court backs Mexico City's free abortion law"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court yesterday upheld the capital's abortion law by dismissing a challenge brought by the conservative federal government by eight votes to three.The law, in effect since April last year, requires Mexico City health services to provide free terminations to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.The chief federal prosecutor and the national human rights ombudsman took the case to the supreme court, arguing that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliged the authorities to prioritise the protection of every unborn child, from the moment of conception, over a woman's right to choose. A formal vote by the 11 supreme court justices was delivered yesterday, but over the course of a televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the justices made clear they disagreed with the challenge.Along with Cuba, Mexico City has the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. Fearful of exposing divisions in a country that values its anticlerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage, politicians and bishops had avoided the abortion question for decades. The laws of most Mexican states allow terminations in cases of rape, risk to the mother's life or severe foetal deformities. In practice almost no states offer abortions in such cases. However, nor do they prosecute the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions or the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners. Many thought this compromise would end when the Catholic conservative National Action party won the 2000 general election, after 71 years of rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right remained wary and it was left to the capital's leftwing authority to pass legislation. Feminists want abortion on demand across Mexico. A fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital had gone there from elsewhere in Mexico.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Judges uphold abortion rights in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-08-28T08:39:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court will uphold trailblazing abortion laws in the capital by dismissing a challenge from the conservative federal government.Mexico City's law, in effect since April last year, requires city health services to provide a free abortion to any woman who seeks it up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.It was challenged in the supreme court by the chief federal prosecutor, which is a cabinet post in Mexico, and the national human rights ombudsman. They argued that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliges the authorities to protect an unborn child from the moment of conception, overriding a woman's right to determine what happens to her body.In a lengthy and televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the 11 justices said they would dismiss the challenge. A decision is due within days, possibly today.Mexico City sits alongside Cuba in having the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. One country \u2013 Nicaragua \u2013 has prohibited abortion in all cases since 2006.The law has shattered the longstanding suppression of the abortion debate in Mexico. Politicians and bishops had avoided touching the question for decades, fearful of exposing bitter divisions in a country that values its anti-clerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage.The laws of most Mexican states, as was the case in Mexico City, allow terminations in cases of rape, danger to the mother's life or catastrophic deformations of the foetus. But in practice, very few women in these situations get the option. The states do not prosecute either the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions for those with money, or the life-threatening backstreet practitioners used by the poor.Many expected tighter controls when the Catholic conservative National Action party took control of the federal government in 2000, after 71 years of one-party rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right wing remained wary of upsetting the status quo.The leftwing administration in Mexico City eventually took on the taboo, and the discussion has stretched far beyond the supreme court to become an unprecedented national debate. Anti-abortion activists have blasted passers-by with the sound of foetal heart beats, while the Catholic hierarchy ran anti-abortion television commercials in prime time. Feminists have shouted their determination to push for abortion on demand elsewhere in Mexico.About a fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital travelled from elsewhere in the country. There are no figures available for the private sector.The majority of public doctors have declared themselves conscientious objectors and refused to do abortions, forcing the city to set up special clinics, some of which have been picketed by activists.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christianity", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Religion", "Americas"], "title": "Court backs Mexico City's free abortion law"},{"date": "2008-07-23T11:35:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "There's something mythological-sounding about Mexico's Isla Mujeres, a tiny scrap of land separated from Canc\u00fan by a few miles of turquoise-dappled sea and a somewhat wider gulf in attitude. As the small passenger ferry chugged along, I pictured a shipwrecked mariner licking his salty lips as he realises he's washed up somewhere called the island of women. Canc\u00fan's highrises shimmered on the horizon as I disembarked the ferry and stepped into a cheerful little port splashed with Caribbean colour. Pastel-coloured shops hawk bead-and-shell knick-knacks and grizzled vendors hack machetes into coconuts for passing gringos to quench their thirst as they flip-flop their way to Playa Norte, the island's main beach. Although most visitors are happy kicking back on the milky sand with a glass of something cool, there are opportunities for shaking down the towel and appreciating some of the surrounding marine beauty. Before Canc\u00fan began to germinate, fishing was the region's economic mainstay. Nowadays, the fishermen have formed a cooperative to supplement their income by offering tourist excursions. These maritime multi-taskers will take you snorkelling, deep sea fishing, or to the Parque Nacional Isla Contoy, a tropical idyll home to more than 150 species of bird. The next morning I was down at the docks in good time for Fausto's prompt 9am cast-off. It was a glorious day and, as we sped out of the harbour, the captain, a smiling advert for the outdoor life, told me a little more about the cooperative's role in promoting ethical tourism. The government regulates and subsidises the cooperative to ensure the protection of Contoy's pristine environment is prioritised. They seem to take a green view on Isla Mujeres and its eco-credentials are further enhanced by a sea turtle sanctuary which was set up to provide safe breeding conditions and is open to tourists.Back on the boat, Fausto killed the engine halfway through the crossing. Demonstrating that dabbling in the cosseted world of tourism had done nothing to diminish their primary skills, his crew nonchalantly began to whip fish out of the water with the ease of seabirds. The captain assured me that a thrashing barracuda, the most impressive addition to the haul, would be our lunch.Snorkelling is permitted in the bay and the cooperative provides equipment on its trips. As I swam back towards the shallows, I was thrilled to find myself alongside a huge manta ray. These glide right up to the water's edge to bask and seem completely unperturbed at sharing their habitat with curious humans. Drying off, I thought a combination of heat and hunger was inducing a hallucination when what appeared to be a miniature pirate's galleon docked at the jetty. Those disembarking, however, were wielding cameras not cutlasses and were daytrippers from Canc\u00fan. Although visitor numbers to Contoy from both Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres are strictly limited, with waste from the trips assiduously collected and removed from the island, I couldn't help feeling I'd had the more intimate experience. There was something reassuringly authentic about the matter of fact way lunch had been acquired, the sea providing the fishermen with their living as it had for generations.Finally the shout went up for lunch. The mock pirate's galleon may have been an ostentatious reminder of the real world but it's hard not to feel momentarily at peace when you're sitting on a beach and eating a barbecued barracuda taco, the contents of which you saw hauled from the sea a few hours previously. \u00b7 Paul flew from Mexico City to Canc\u00fan with Mexicana and stayed at the Posada del Mar on Isla Mujeres (doubles from \u00a330 low season, \u00a351 high) as a guest of the Isla Mujeres and the Mexico Tourist Boards (00800 11112266).\u00b7 The Isla Mujeres fisherman's cooperative has a booth on Av Rueda Medina. Telephone: +52 998 877 1363.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "Mexico: Casting off for greener shores"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court yesterday upheld the capital's abortion law by dismissing a challenge brought by the conservative federal government by eight votes to three.The law, in effect since April last year, requires Mexico City health services to provide free terminations to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.The chief federal prosecutor and the national human rights ombudsman took the case to the supreme court, arguing that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliged the authorities to prioritise the protection of every unborn child, from the moment of conception, over a woman's right to choose. A formal vote by the 11 supreme court justices was delivered yesterday, but over the course of a televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the justices made clear they disagreed with the challenge.Along with Cuba, Mexico City has the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. Fearful of exposing divisions in a country that values its anticlerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage, politicians and bishops had avoided the abortion question for decades. The laws of most Mexican states allow terminations in cases of rape, risk to the mother's life or severe foetal deformities. In practice almost no states offer abortions in such cases. However, nor do they prosecute the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions or the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners. Many thought this compromise would end when the Catholic conservative National Action party won the 2000 general election, after 71 years of rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right remained wary and it was left to the capital's leftwing authority to pass legislation. Feminists want abortion on demand across Mexico. A fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital had gone there from elsewhere in Mexico.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Judges uphold abortion rights in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-08-28T08:39:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court will uphold trailblazing abortion laws in the capital by dismissing a challenge from the conservative federal government.Mexico City's law, in effect since April last year, requires city health services to provide a free abortion to any woman who seeks it up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.It was challenged in the supreme court by the chief federal prosecutor, which is a cabinet post in Mexico, and the national human rights ombudsman. They argued that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliges the authorities to protect an unborn child from the moment of conception, overriding a woman's right to determine what happens to her body.In a lengthy and televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the 11 justices said they would dismiss the challenge. A decision is due within days, possibly today.Mexico City sits alongside Cuba in having the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. One country \u2013 Nicaragua \u2013 has prohibited abortion in all cases since 2006.The law has shattered the longstanding suppression of the abortion debate in Mexico. Politicians and bishops had avoided touching the question for decades, fearful of exposing bitter divisions in a country that values its anti-clerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage.The laws of most Mexican states, as was the case in Mexico City, allow terminations in cases of rape, danger to the mother's life or catastrophic deformations of the foetus. But in practice, very few women in these situations get the option. The states do not prosecute either the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions for those with money, or the life-threatening backstreet practitioners used by the poor.Many expected tighter controls when the Catholic conservative National Action party took control of the federal government in 2000, after 71 years of one-party rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right wing remained wary of upsetting the status quo.The leftwing administration in Mexico City eventually took on the taboo, and the discussion has stretched far beyond the supreme court to become an unprecedented national debate. Anti-abortion activists have blasted passers-by with the sound of foetal heart beats, while the Catholic hierarchy ran anti-abortion television commercials in prime time. Feminists have shouted their determination to push for abortion on demand elsewhere in Mexico.About a fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital travelled from elsewhere in the country. There are no figures available for the private sector.The majority of public doctors have declared themselves conscientious objectors and refused to do abortions, forcing the city to set up special clinics, some of which have been picketed by activists.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christianity", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Religion", "Americas"], "title": "Court backs Mexico City's free abortion law"},{"date": "2008-07-23T11:35:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "There's something mythological-sounding about Mexico's Isla Mujeres, a tiny scrap of land separated from Canc\u00fan by a few miles of turquoise-dappled sea and a somewhat wider gulf in attitude. As the small passenger ferry chugged along, I pictured a shipwrecked mariner licking his salty lips as he realises he's washed up somewhere called the island of women. Canc\u00fan's highrises shimmered on the horizon as I disembarked the ferry and stepped into a cheerful little port splashed with Caribbean colour. Pastel-coloured shops hawk bead-and-shell knick-knacks and grizzled vendors hack machetes into coconuts for passing gringos to quench their thirst as they flip-flop their way to Playa Norte, the island's main beach. Although most visitors are happy kicking back on the milky sand with a glass of something cool, there are opportunities for shaking down the towel and appreciating some of the surrounding marine beauty. Before Canc\u00fan began to germinate, fishing was the region's economic mainstay. Nowadays, the fishermen have formed a cooperative to supplement their income by offering tourist excursions. These maritime multi-taskers will take you snorkelling, deep sea fishing, or to the Parque Nacional Isla Contoy, a tropical idyll home to more than 150 species of bird. The next morning I was down at the docks in good time for Fausto's prompt 9am cast-off. It was a glorious day and, as we sped out of the harbour, the captain, a smiling advert for the outdoor life, told me a little more about the cooperative's role in promoting ethical tourism. The government regulates and subsidises the cooperative to ensure the protection of Contoy's pristine environment is prioritised. They seem to take a green view on Isla Mujeres and its eco-credentials are further enhanced by a sea turtle sanctuary which was set up to provide safe breeding conditions and is open to tourists.Back on the boat, Fausto killed the engine halfway through the crossing. Demonstrating that dabbling in the cosseted world of tourism had done nothing to diminish their primary skills, his crew nonchalantly began to whip fish out of the water with the ease of seabirds. The captain assured me that a thrashing barracuda, the most impressive addition to the haul, would be our lunch.Snorkelling is permitted in the bay and the cooperative provides equipment on its trips. As I swam back towards the shallows, I was thrilled to find myself alongside a huge manta ray. These glide right up to the water's edge to bask and seem completely unperturbed at sharing their habitat with curious humans. Drying off, I thought a combination of heat and hunger was inducing a hallucination when what appeared to be a miniature pirate's galleon docked at the jetty. Those disembarking, however, were wielding cameras not cutlasses and were daytrippers from Canc\u00fan. Although visitor numbers to Contoy from both Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres are strictly limited, with waste from the trips assiduously collected and removed from the island, I couldn't help feeling I'd had the more intimate experience. There was something reassuringly authentic about the matter of fact way lunch had been acquired, the sea providing the fishermen with their living as it had for generations.Finally the shout went up for lunch. The mock pirate's galleon may have been an ostentatious reminder of the real world but it's hard not to feel momentarily at peace when you're sitting on a beach and eating a barbecued barracuda taco, the contents of which you saw hauled from the sea a few hours previously. \u00b7 Paul flew from Mexico City to Canc\u00fan with Mexicana and stayed at the Posada del Mar on Isla Mujeres (doubles from \u00a330 low season, \u00a351 high) as a guest of the Isla Mujeres and the Mexico Tourist Boards (00800 11112266).\u00b7 The Isla Mujeres fisherman's cooperative has a booth on Av Rueda Medina. Telephone: +52 998 877 1363.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "Mexico: Casting off for greener shores"},{"date": "2008-09-26T10:10:22Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government is holding a competition to find the most outrageous examples of bureaucracy and the best suggestions on how to improve rid government agencies of inefficiency and corruption. Mexicans face such delays and complications in their dealings with officialdom that bribery to speed things up is commonplace. The president, Felipe Calderon, who announced the competition, wants to slim down the number of forms used by the federal government from 4,200 to a slightly more manageable 3,000 by the time he leaves office in 2012. \"Governments serve to facilitate the development of people and communities, not to complicate them,\" the government's public administration secretary, Salvador Vega, said at a news conference.Questions asked in competition entry forms include \"Were you asked for difficult-to-acquire or nonexistent documents?\" and \"Were you asked for a bribe to complete the service?\" People are asked for suggestions on how to improve government agencies.The head of the Mexican branch of the anti-corruption group Transparency International will chair the competition judging panel, which will include citizens. The winners will be announced in December. The worst example of federal red tape and the best suggestion for improvement will win US$27,900 (\u00a315,180). Winners at the state and local level will get US$9,300 each.The entry forms feature a photograph of an official at his desk, surrounded by stacks of documents and pointing a long line of weary residents in another direction, while an assistant paints her nails. A clock on the wall gives the time as 11.30am and a digital counter announces that the second person of the day is being served.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico rewards citizens to expose corruption and red tape"},{"date": "2008-09-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Half an hour of tuneless singing and dedicated hammock swinging had finally lulled my son into his siesta. His big sister and father were in the hotel swimming pool and, aside from a local teenager offering rides on a scruffy old horse, there wasn't anybody else in sight. What to do with the temporary freedom? I sipped from a bottle of beer beside me and picked up a book I should have read years ago. It was enjoyable enough, but soon a darting movement caught my eye and I found myself looking at an iguana instead. We stared at each other for some time until he scampered away and I was left looking at an apparently empty Pacific beach. Then the sand began to move before my eyes. Crabs with stolen shells on their backs scuttled about their business, while their smaller less protected cousins pitted their speed against the reflexes of the birds padding about at the water's edge looking for lunch. Pelicans flew along the foaming breakers beyond searching out bigger prey, and a lone yellow butterfly headed off on some unknown mission towards the sun. The book stayed unread. People or no people, there was just too much world to watch going by on the beach.Troncones does not have the wondrous turquoise water and white sand of the Riviera Maya, or the adventure of the wilder parts of Mexico's coastline. The dilapidated glamour of corners of Acapulco is similarly absent, as is the party scene found at Puerto Vallarta. Still Troncones envelopes its visitors in natural beauty with such unfussy grace that, in my mind, it's as lovely as a Mexican beach resort gets.I am, I found out during our five days there this summer, in illustrious company in my assessment. Beaten to it, more like, by a coterie of international art world celebrities whose presence provides mere mortals with quite a fun game to play while walking along the beach - guessing which villa belongs to who.We are moderately confident we identified the home of artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel while on our way to a natural tide pool surrounded by rocks and filled with bright blue tropical fish. It wasn't just the faultlessly tasteful house, and the faultlessly tasteful sand castle in front of it. There were also the orange hammocks slung gracefully below a palm leaf palapa - an open-sided thatched hut - decorated with similarly coloured glass buoys which, for me at least, conjured up images of Schnabel's film The Diving Bell and the Butterfly.Rumour has it that Schnabel's good friend, Francis Ford Coppola, is currently scouting out a winter residence for himself. The Mexicans have their fair share of notables too, headlined by the foremost modernist painter and sculptor Jos\u00e9 Luis Cuevas. And the British are represented by none other than Damien Hirst, reputedly drawn to Troncones by his wife's enthusiasm for surfing.Surfers are among the most identifiable group of lesser known visitors too, attracted by a large number of \"left-turn point breaks\" that are reputedly both high quality and smooth, making them ideal for novices and veterans alike. All of which, I am reliably informed, holds particular appeal for those who favour a \"goofy foot stance\". This year, surfing tourism suffered somewhat following three shark attacks in March that left two surfers dead and a third requiring a thousand stitches. Freak events, say many who insist nothing like this has ever happened before in this area which first began to creep on to the alternative tourist map in the mid 1990s. It began with a handful of gringos buying up beach land and establishing the unwritten rule that all development would be low impact. At the time there was little more than a tiny village sandwiched between the ocean and a small, steep, jungle-covered mountain, home to fishermen and former construction workers turned subsistence farmers. Today there are about 250 rooms in small hotels along the three-mile-long beach costing between $50 and $250 a night. It is a shame that so few of them are Mexican owned. But at least the locals seem to have done significantly better out of tourism here than those swallowed up by the kind of mass resorts usually promoted by the Mexican authorities, resorts like Ixtapa and Zihuatanejo, a 30-minute drive south.Most visitors to Troncones are foreigners too, most of them from the US and Canada escaping cold winters at home and arriving at the Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo airport a 45-minute cab drive away. But there are some Mexican tourists, many of them happy to drive the nine long hours from Mexico City, as we did.We stayed at a pleasant bed and breakfast called La Casa Delfin Sonriente - the Smiling Dolphin House. Not, I add, that we witnessed any of the aforementioned creatures said to frolic off the shore. It cost about US$70 a night for a family room with breakfast included, a pretty pool, and a cooler full of beer. All just steps from the beach through a garden filled with butterflies. It was perfect for us, though I could have done with a few less power ballads on the communal iPod. We could have done with a few less meals hastily prepared by me in the kitchen from the limited stocks in the local shops. It was far nicer when we got it together to walk up, or down, the beach to one of the restaurants serving fresh fish day and night. The best meal we had was at the Manzanillo Bay Inn where we got stuck one afternoon when a thunder storm scuppered our first attempt to play in the tide pool and we had walked on past the rocky point into the bay looking for shelter. Unfortunately the restaurant is tucked away from the hotel's spectacular views, but the seared tuna and ceviche were excellent. The Delfin Sonriente's owner, a friendly Californian surfer and one of the original Troncones pioneers, points out that the added value to the place doesn't stop at the waves, the celebrity spotting and the odd posh restaurant. There are also jungle hikes, caving, mountain biking, diving and bird watching. Not forgetting the more recent proliferation of yoga retreats, and the prevalence of massage tables on the sand's edge complete with ethereal white drapes fluttering in the breeze.None of these were really options for a family with small children, but contrary to my rather envious nature I did not find myself fantasising about them either. True the sun did pound down mercilessly most days, and we did run into a serious storm on the other. But for most of the time, being in the middle of the May-November low season meant we had the beach pretty much to ourselves, and that was priceless. Only as the sun set did a few more people emerge to play in the waves, the more confident taking on the undercurrents to go beyond the breakers and body surf back. At this time of year we also had a reasonable chance of seeing a turtle lumber up the sand to lay her eggs as night fell. We weren't that lucky but we were happy enough to watch the crabs scuttling about.Getting thereBritish Airways (08444 930 787, ba.com) flies Heathrow-Mexico City then Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo with a local carrier from \u00a3937.30 rtn inc tax.Where to stayLa Casa del Delfin Sonriente (+55 5264 6582, casadelfinsonriente.com) bungalow rooms from $57 per night.Further informationThe Mexico Tourism Board: 020-7488 9392, visitmexico.com.Country code: 0052.Flight time: London-Mexico City 11\u00bchrs; Mexico City-Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo: 55mins.\u00a31 = 16.78 pesos.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Surfing holidays", "Diving holidays", "Health and fitness holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The loveliest beach in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-09-02T10:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican feminists are rightly celebrating the recent supreme court's decision to uphold a law that allows legal and  free abortion in Mexico City during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. But what often gets lost in how this is reported is just how recently such things seemed little more than a pipedream.As little as three years ago, campaigners I talked to would shrug away the very idea of abortion on demand as simply too ambitious a goal to openly articulate in Mexican society.It was more complicated than the influence of the bishops in an overwhelmingly Catholic country, they would say. It was equally associated with the way the traditionally anti-clerical state (responsible for swinging many a priest from lampposts in the past) had established a live-and-let-live arrangement with the church that rested on the avoidance of controversy. So while conservatives would refrain from campaigning for prosecutions of those involved in illegal terminations, nominally progressive politicians seemed unconcerned that what legal rights to abortions did exist were unenforced, such as in cases of rape.In the meantime, Mexican woman of any influence had no trouble finding private doctors to perform a discrete and safe procedure. While poor and shame-conscious families could be relied on to keep the haemorrhaging tragedies of the back street conveniently covered up. The most radical pro-choice group I know of concentrated its efforts less on changing the laws than on surreptitiously teaching clandestine practitioners to wear sterilised gloves.And then, in 2007, everything changed. The same leftwing party in power in the capital for a decade in which it had done little more than tinker with the theoretical restrictions, suddenly changed tack. It passed a bill not only permitting legal abortions in the first trimester, but also obligating city medical services to provide them for free. The issue was suddenly out of the cupboard and the unwritten hush code smashed.Since then there have been problems finding ways around the many doctors who refuse to perform abortions, and many complaints from women about treatment received from pro-life hospital staff. Nevertheless over 12,000 women have had terminations in public hospitals in the capital since the law went into effect in April last year. And that is a simply extraordinary fact. Anti-abortionists have, of course, held emotive demonstrations positioning 12,000 little white crosses on a central monument and blaring out foetal heartbeats to passersby, at the same time as the flood gates have been lifted on pronouncements from the pulpit. But, to the shock of many an observer, these deeply passionate disagreements have been quite manageable. And now the supreme court has thrown out the conservative federal government's argument that the law contravenes the right to life, the political debate on abortion seems unstoppable. And this is what is potentially most important about last week's decision. Feminists will be newly energised to campaign for similar legislation in other states outside the relatively progressive bubble of the capital. And, I think, they can expect radical pro-life elements of the governing rightwing party to counter by pushing for the prosecution of doctors carrying out illegal terminations. They may well start tabling even more restrictive legislation, although banning all abortion outright, as in Nicaragua, seems unlikely. I hesitate to predict which side will win these regional political battles, but for the moment let's just relish the fact that they are now on the horizon and the sun will keep rising and setting anyway. The story of the recent advance of abortion rights in Mexico is beginning to sound like a fable for how societies are often much readier to face their taboos than they are given credit for.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "Gender", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Jo Tuckman: Mexico City faces its taboos"},{"date": "2008-08-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has deployed a hastily formed anti-kidnapping force after public outrage over an increase in the number of kidnappings across the country, and evidence that police officers are among the most vicious perpetrators.The federal government has deployed the new force in five operational centres, which it says has the latest technology and crime-fighting expertise. The unit's 300 agents are also to be paid well and regularly submitted to strict honesty tests, all part of an effort to convince the public that this time they can trust the police.The avalanche of security measures follows the discovery two weeks ago of the decomposing body of the 14-year-old son of a well known businessman. Fernando Mart\u00ed had been killed by his kidnappers and left in the boot of a stolen car despite payment of a ransom of over 5m pesos (\u00a3265,000). He had been abducted in June along with his driver, who's body was discovered soon after. His bodyguard was left for dead but survived.The kidnapping took place after the boy's car was stopped at a police roadblock near the National Autonomous University of Mexico in the south of the capital. Detectives are investigating the involvement of a gang known to involve police officers called La Banda de La Flor (the flower gang), so called because of their ritual of putting flowers by messages. As part of the initiative to crackdown on the crime, President Calder\u00f3n called on all levels of government to \"purge, modernise and professionalise the municipal, state and federal level police forces\". At the same time parliament received a government initiative to increase sentences for kidnappers who belong, or belonged, to the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fights back against kidnappers"},{"date": "2008-07-09T05:49:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico is one of the most dangerous places in the world for journalists. More than 30 reporters have died or disappeared in the country since 2000. A Los Angeles Times article takes a close look at the risks facing journalists who dare to write about Mexico's greatest crime scandal: drug trafficking. It is a frightening piece.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Mexico", "Media", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico, a journalistic death trap"},{"date": "2008-09-17T07:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's chamber of deputies is discussing a federal law to combat murderous attacks on journalists. Part of the debate centres on the definition of a journalist. The justice ministry initially favoured a restrictive definition that would exclude people such as Lydia Cacho, who is famous for her reporting on paedophile rings, or Brad Will, a cameraman murdered in October 2006. But trying to define who is and who is not a journalist is tantamount to restricting access to news and information. (Via ReportersWithoutBorders) ", "tags": ["Media", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico considers law to protect journalists"},{"date": "2008-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court yesterday upheld the capital's abortion law by dismissing a challenge brought by the conservative federal government by eight votes to three.The law, in effect since April last year, requires Mexico City health services to provide free terminations to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.The chief federal prosecutor and the national human rights ombudsman took the case to the supreme court, arguing that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliged the authorities to prioritise the protection of every unborn child, from the moment of conception, over a woman's right to choose. A formal vote by the 11 supreme court justices was delivered yesterday, but over the course of a televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the justices made clear they disagreed with the challenge.Along with Cuba, Mexico City has the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. Fearful of exposing divisions in a country that values its anticlerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage, politicians and bishops had avoided the abortion question for decades. The laws of most Mexican states allow terminations in cases of rape, risk to the mother's life or severe foetal deformities. In practice almost no states offer abortions in such cases. However, nor do they prosecute the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions or the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners. Many thought this compromise would end when the Catholic conservative National Action party won the 2000 general election, after 71 years of rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right remained wary and it was left to the capital's leftwing authority to pass legislation. Feminists want abortion on demand across Mexico. A fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital had gone there from elsewhere in Mexico.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "World news", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Judges uphold abortion rights in Mexico City"},{"date": "2008-08-28T08:39:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's supreme court will uphold trailblazing abortion laws in the capital by dismissing a challenge from the conservative federal government.Mexico City's law, in effect since April last year, requires city health services to provide a free abortion to any woman who seeks it up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy.It was challenged in the supreme court by the chief federal prosecutor, which is a cabinet post in Mexico, and the national human rights ombudsman. They argued that the constitution's guarantee of the right to life obliges the authorities to protect an unborn child from the moment of conception, overriding a woman's right to determine what happens to her body.In a lengthy and televised discussion lasting several days, eight of the 11 justices said they would dismiss the challenge. A decision is due within days, possibly today.Mexico City sits alongside Cuba in having the most liberal abortion legislation in Latin America. One country \u2013 Nicaragua \u2013 has prohibited abortion in all cases since 2006.The law has shattered the longstanding suppression of the abortion debate in Mexico. Politicians and bishops had avoided touching the question for decades, fearful of exposing bitter divisions in a country that values its anti-clerical political tradition as deeply as its Catholic heritage.The laws of most Mexican states, as was the case in Mexico City, allow terminations in cases of rape, danger to the mother's life or catastrophic deformations of the foetus. But in practice, very few women in these situations get the option. The states do not prosecute either the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions for those with money, or the life-threatening backstreet practitioners used by the poor.Many expected tighter controls when the Catholic conservative National Action party took control of the federal government in 2000, after 71 years of one-party rule by the nominally progressive Institutional Revolutionary party. But the right wing remained wary of upsetting the status quo.The leftwing administration in Mexico City eventually took on the taboo, and the discussion has stretched far beyond the supreme court to become an unprecedented national debate. Anti-abortion activists have blasted passers-by with the sound of foetal heart beats, while the Catholic hierarchy ran anti-abortion television commercials in prime time. Feminists have shouted their determination to push for abortion on demand elsewhere in Mexico.About a fifth of the 12,000 women given free abortions in the capital travelled from elsewhere in the country. There are no figures available for the private sector.The majority of public doctors have declared themselves conscientious objectors and refused to do abortions, forcing the city to set up special clinics, some of which have been picketed by activists.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christianity", "Life and style", "Abortion", "Religion", "Americas"], "title": "Court backs Mexico City's free abortion law"},{"date": "2008-07-23T11:35:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "There's something mythological-sounding about Mexico's Isla Mujeres, a tiny scrap of land separated from Canc\u00fan by a few miles of turquoise-dappled sea and a somewhat wider gulf in attitude. As the small passenger ferry chugged along, I pictured a shipwrecked mariner licking his salty lips as he realises he's washed up somewhere called the island of women. Canc\u00fan's highrises shimmered on the horizon as I disembarked the ferry and stepped into a cheerful little port splashed with Caribbean colour. Pastel-coloured shops hawk bead-and-shell knick-knacks and grizzled vendors hack machetes into coconuts for passing gringos to quench their thirst as they flip-flop their way to Playa Norte, the island's main beach. Although most visitors are happy kicking back on the milky sand with a glass of something cool, there are opportunities for shaking down the towel and appreciating some of the surrounding marine beauty. Before Canc\u00fan began to germinate, fishing was the region's economic mainstay. Nowadays, the fishermen have formed a cooperative to supplement their income by offering tourist excursions. These maritime multi-taskers will take you snorkelling, deep sea fishing, or to the Parque Nacional Isla Contoy, a tropical idyll home to more than 150 species of bird. The next morning I was down at the docks in good time for Fausto's prompt 9am cast-off. It was a glorious day and, as we sped out of the harbour, the captain, a smiling advert for the outdoor life, told me a little more about the cooperative's role in promoting ethical tourism. The government regulates and subsidises the cooperative to ensure the protection of Contoy's pristine environment is prioritised. They seem to take a green view on Isla Mujeres and its eco-credentials are further enhanced by a sea turtle sanctuary which was set up to provide safe breeding conditions and is open to tourists.Back on the boat, Fausto killed the engine halfway through the crossing. Demonstrating that dabbling in the cosseted world of tourism had done nothing to diminish their primary skills, his crew nonchalantly began to whip fish out of the water with the ease of seabirds. The captain assured me that a thrashing barracuda, the most impressive addition to the haul, would be our lunch.Snorkelling is permitted in the bay and the cooperative provides equipment on its trips. As I swam back towards the shallows, I was thrilled to find myself alongside a huge manta ray. These glide right up to the water's edge to bask and seem completely unperturbed at sharing their habitat with curious humans. Drying off, I thought a combination of heat and hunger was inducing a hallucination when what appeared to be a miniature pirate's galleon docked at the jetty. Those disembarking, however, were wielding cameras not cutlasses and were daytrippers from Canc\u00fan. Although visitor numbers to Contoy from both Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres are strictly limited, with waste from the trips assiduously collected and removed from the island, I couldn't help feeling I'd had the more intimate experience. There was something reassuringly authentic about the matter of fact way lunch had been acquired, the sea providing the fishermen with their living as it had for generations.Finally the shout went up for lunch. The mock pirate's galleon may have been an ostentatious reminder of the real world but it's hard not to feel momentarily at peace when you're sitting on a beach and eating a barbecued barracuda taco, the contents of which you saw hauled from the sea a few hours previously. \u00b7 Paul flew from Mexico City to Canc\u00fan with Mexicana and stayed at the Posada del Mar on Isla Mujeres (doubles from \u00a330 low season, \u00a351 high) as a guest of the Isla Mujeres and the Mexico Tourist Boards (00800 11112266).\u00b7 The Isla Mujeres fisherman's cooperative has a booth on Av Rueda Medina. Telephone: +52 998 877 1363.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "Mexico: Casting off for greener shores"},{"date": "2008-09-26T10:10:22Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government is holding a competition to find the most outrageous examples of bureaucracy and the best suggestions on how to improve rid government agencies of inefficiency and corruption. Mexicans face such delays and complications in their dealings with officialdom that bribery to speed things up is commonplace. The president, Felipe Calderon, who announced the competition, wants to slim down the number of forms used by the federal government from 4,200 to a slightly more manageable 3,000 by the time he leaves office in 2012. \"Governments serve to facilitate the development of people and communities, not to complicate them,\" the government's public administration secretary, Salvador Vega, said at a news conference.Questions asked in competition entry forms include \"Were you asked for difficult-to-acquire or nonexistent documents?\" and \"Were you asked for a bribe to complete the service?\" People are asked for suggestions on how to improve government agencies.The head of the Mexican branch of the anti-corruption group Transparency International will chair the competition judging panel, which will include citizens. The winners will be announced in December. The worst example of federal red tape and the best suggestion for improvement will win US$27,900 (\u00a315,180). Winners at the state and local level will get US$9,300 each.The entry forms feature a photograph of an official at his desk, surrounded by stacks of documents and pointing a long line of weary residents in another direction, while an assistant paints her nails. A clock on the wall gives the time as 11.30am and a digital counter announces that the second person of the day is being served.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico rewards citizens to expose corruption and red tape"},{"date": "2008-09-12T14:41:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was a familiar scene in a state along the drug-torn Mexico-Texas border -- a group of men lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs -- except these 35 men were wearing the dark blue pants and light blue shirts issued to the local police.Soldiers and federal agents captured the cops in Torreon, Coahuila, after a shootout this week in which 28 city patrol pickups were sent to free five Gulf cartel operatives just arrested by federal police, authorities said.On Thursday, the 35 police were charged with attempted murder and drug crimes and moved from jail to a state prison.And it was just one of several cases of high-profile police corruption or misconduct this week.On the opposite side of the country, where Mexico borders Guatemala, another big police bust this week netted 26 agents, including the Tabasco state police chief. They were allegedly on a payroll doled out to officers by the Zetas, a paramilitary group linked to the Gulf cartel.And in the beach resort of San Jose del Cabo, six officers are under house arrest for allegedly beating an American tourist to death at the local jail in August. Federal police and army soldiers are increasingly taking on local and state law enforcement groups that have sold out to drug traffickers and kidnappers, analysts say. And the criminal groups are rapidly spreading their influence far beyond the US-Mexico border, where police collusion with narcos has been legendary.The sudden airing of high-profile cases shows not just the familiar pattern of corrupt cops, but also the takeover of local and state law enforcement by the cartels and kidnappers, one security consultant said.\"What is new in terms of the narcos is that they have the money to buy off the local police force anytime they want to,\" said Jon French, head of the Mexico City firm Problem Solvers. \"You had corrupt police in the past, but not to this extent because you didn't have such a narco problem.\"With the 350,000 state and local police outnumbering their drug-fighting federal counterparts by nearly 20-to-1, President Felipe Calderon faces an uphill task to neutralise corrupt local forces, analysts said.But the corruption is not limited to poorly paid local and state police. A federal police commander was among those arrested in Tabasco, and Mexico City authorities implicated a female officer from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in a kidnapping ring that often killed its young victims.French said the record level of drug violence and busts of corrupt police has a counter-intuitive upside: Calderon's drug crackdown is fuelling the narco turf war and the internecine slayings among the cartels and their official protectors.Police involvement in the complex turf war among the Gulf, Sinaloa, Juarez and other cartels has also led to a record 450 police deaths this year, including 75 in August.\"I would be worried if there was no news at all on this front because that would mean the narcos were in control,\" said French, who gives security advice to US and Mexican business executives.But other security experts see it differently: the record 3,500 drug-related killings this year and the growing co-optation of local and state forces show that the government has lost control of wide swaths of Mexican territory.As drug traffickers' power grows through new businesses like kidnapping, protection rackets and even the distribution of pirated goods like music CDs and videos, so does their power to corrupt police, analysts said.\"The power of organised crime is growing and spreading to new territories,\" said Arturo Yanez, a former adviser to the federal government on security issues. \"With it, we see the weakening and the disintegration of law enforcement institutions.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "US news", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Police corruption cases on the rise in Mexico"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican politicians were yesterday calling for an investigation into ties between the nation's popular beauty pageants and leading drug cartels, after the reigning Miss Sinaloa, Laura Z\u00fa\u00f1iga Huizar, was arrested last week travelling near Guadalajara in the company of a top trafficker and an arsenal of weaponry.Z\u00fa\u00f1iga, a 23-year-old former kindergarten teacher, was detained with boyfriend \u00c1ngel Orlando Garc\u00eda Urquiza, a key player in the Ju\u00e1rez cartel, and six bodyguards, when their convoy was stopped at a military checkpoint last Monday. Mexican authorities were astonished to find the beauty queen with traffickers on their way to Bolivia, armed with assault rifles, pistols and ammunition clips, 16 cell phones and about $53,000 (\u00a336,345) in cash.It is now feared that Z\u00fa\u00f1iga's arrest is confirmation that even \"clean\" elements of Mexican society are no longer beyond the reach of the drug cartels. In their course of business, it is believed that the drug lords may have \"adopted\" performers, including beauty queens. Officials from Sinaloa, a northern state of Mexico, say pageant organisers may have fast-tracked Z\u00fa\u00f1iga to victory in July when she was crowned Miss Sinaloa after coming third in the Miss Mexico contest. \"It is very sad. What we are seeing is a loss of values among young people,\" noted Juan Francisco Rivera, who heads the congressional public safety committee.Under Mexican law Z\u00fa\u00f1iga can be held for 40 days while police decide whether to charge her. Pageant organisers say they may strip her of her title if it is shown that her win was connected to her relationship with Garc\u00eda. Nuestra Belleza Mexico, the pageant's ruling body, has released a statement saying it knew nothing about \"any illicit activity in which she could be involved\". According to authorities, there is little mystery about the connection: traffickers like to accessorise their wealth with attractive women, and none are so highly valued as beauty queens.For Garc\u00eda, though, his arrest signals both the resolve of the Mexican government to curb the war between drug cartels and the relative decline of the Ju\u00e1rez cartel that once dominated the illicit border trade between Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and El Paso on the US side.Ten years ago, under the control of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"Lord of the Skies\", the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful in the country. But Carrillo died in 1997 after botched plastic surgery and control of the gang fell to his brother, Vicente. That arrangement collapsed in 2004. Vicente went into hiding, and leadership was taken over by Garc\u00eda's brother, Ricardo. Before Ricardo was arrested three years ago, the cartel was still estimated to control 20% of Mexican narcotics sold on US street and earn as much as $1bn a month. But without strong leadership the Ju\u00e1rez cartel is now a shadow of its former self.After being arrested, Z\u00fa\u00f1iga told police she and her boyfriend were planning to go shopping in Bolivia and Colombia. But Z\u00fa\u00f1iga had told her father she was going to a Christmas party in Guadalajara. Jes\u00fas Esteb\u00e1n Z\u00fa\u00f1iga said he was not willing to accept that his daughter had fallen in with drug traffickers. \"She's a good daughter,\" he said. \"She's always focused on her work and she's had a spotless reputation ... until now.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fears 'adoption' of beauty queens by drug cartels"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican politicians were yesterday calling for an investigation into ties between the nation's popular beauty pageants and leading drug cartels, after the reigning Miss Sinaloa, Laura Z\u00fa\u00f1iga Huizar, was arrested last week travelling near Guadalajara in the company of a top trafficker and an arsenal of weaponry.Z\u00fa\u00f1iga, a 23-year-old former kindergarten teacher, was detained with boyfriend \u00c1ngel Orlando Garc\u00eda Urquiza, a key player in the Ju\u00e1rez cartel, and six bodyguards, when their convoy was stopped at a military checkpoint last Monday. Mexican authorities were astonished to find the beauty queen with traffickers on their way to Bolivia, armed with assault rifles, pistols and ammunition clips, 16 cell phones and about $53,000 (\u00a336,345) in cash.It is now feared that Z\u00fa\u00f1iga's arrest is confirmation that even \"clean\" elements of Mexican society are no longer beyond the reach of the drug cartels. In their course of business, it is believed that the drug lords may have \"adopted\" performers, including beauty queens. Officials from Sinaloa, a northern state of Mexico, say pageant organisers may have fast-tracked Z\u00fa\u00f1iga to victory in July when she was crowned Miss Sinaloa after coming third in the Miss Mexico contest. \"It is very sad. What we are seeing is a loss of values among young people,\" noted Juan Francisco Rivera, who heads the congressional public safety committee.Under Mexican law Z\u00fa\u00f1iga can be held for 40 days while police decide whether to charge her. Pageant organisers say they may strip her of her title if it is shown that her win was connected to her relationship with Garc\u00eda. Nuestra Belleza Mexico, the pageant's ruling body, has released a statement saying it knew nothing about \"any illicit activity in which she could be involved\". According to authorities, there is little mystery about the connection: traffickers like to accessorise their wealth with attractive women, and none are so highly valued as beauty queens.For Garc\u00eda, though, his arrest signals both the resolve of the Mexican government to curb the war between drug cartels and the relative decline of the Ju\u00e1rez cartel that once dominated the illicit border trade between Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and El Paso on the US side.Ten years ago, under the control of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"Lord of the Skies\", the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful in the country. But Carrillo died in 1997 after botched plastic surgery and control of the gang fell to his brother, Vicente. That arrangement collapsed in 2004. Vicente went into hiding, and leadership was taken over by Garc\u00eda's brother, Ricardo. Before Ricardo was arrested three years ago, the cartel was still estimated to control 20% of Mexican narcotics sold on US street and earn as much as $1bn a month. But without strong leadership the Ju\u00e1rez cartel is now a shadow of its former self.After being arrested, Z\u00fa\u00f1iga told police she and her boyfriend were planning to go shopping in Bolivia and Colombia. But Z\u00fa\u00f1iga had told her father she was going to a Christmas party in Guadalajara. Jes\u00fas Esteb\u00e1n Z\u00fa\u00f1iga said he was not willing to accept that his daughter had fallen in with drug traffickers. \"She's a good daughter,\" he said. \"She's always focused on her work and she's had a spotless reputation ... until now.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fears 'adoption' of beauty queens by drug cartels"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:48:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has become one of the first developing countries to set a specific carbon reduction target, with a pledge to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.Juan Rafael Elvira, Mexico's environment secretary, told UN climate talks in Poznan, Poland that the target was intended to challenge other countries to take action.The pledge is on 2002 levels. Mexico produced more than 430m tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2006, making it the 13th largest emitter in the world.Elvira said the target would be met with clean and efficient technologies, such as wind and solar power. Mexico also plans a domestic cap-and-trade system by 2012 to cut emissions from certain sectors, such as cement and oil refining.Fernando Tudela, the country's deputy environment secretary, said: \"This is a very aggressive goal for our country, but we are confident we can achieve it with international assistance.\" He hoped it would spark \"similar action by other developing countries.\"Costa Rica has pledged to go carbon neutral by 2021 under a UN scheme.Environmentalists at the talks have strongly criticised some of the world's richest countries, saying they have done too little to battle global warming.But many developing countries have been praised for specific plans to fight climate change.Keith Allott, the World Wildlife Fund's head of climate change, said: \"This move by Mexico confirms a trend we have been seeing all through these talks, with the developing world coming up with the innovative ideas on how to move to a low carbon pathway. Unfortunately, the developed world has its fingers in its ears and is sitting on its hands.\"", "tags": ["Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Mexico", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico leads the way in Poznan with carbon reduction pledge"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican politicians were yesterday calling for an investigation into ties between the nation's popular beauty pageants and leading drug cartels, after the reigning Miss Sinaloa, Laura Z\u00fa\u00f1iga Huizar, was arrested last week travelling near Guadalajara in the company of a top trafficker and an arsenal of weaponry.Z\u00fa\u00f1iga, a 23-year-old former kindergarten teacher, was detained with boyfriend \u00c1ngel Orlando Garc\u00eda Urquiza, a key player in the Ju\u00e1rez cartel, and six bodyguards, when their convoy was stopped at a military checkpoint last Monday. Mexican authorities were astonished to find the beauty queen with traffickers on their way to Bolivia, armed with assault rifles, pistols and ammunition clips, 16 cell phones and about $53,000 (\u00a336,345) in cash.It is now feared that Z\u00fa\u00f1iga's arrest is confirmation that even \"clean\" elements of Mexican society are no longer beyond the reach of the drug cartels. In their course of business, it is believed that the drug lords may have \"adopted\" performers, including beauty queens. Officials from Sinaloa, a northern state of Mexico, say pageant organisers may have fast-tracked Z\u00fa\u00f1iga to victory in July when she was crowned Miss Sinaloa after coming third in the Miss Mexico contest. \"It is very sad. What we are seeing is a loss of values among young people,\" noted Juan Francisco Rivera, who heads the congressional public safety committee.Under Mexican law Z\u00fa\u00f1iga can be held for 40 days while police decide whether to charge her. Pageant organisers say they may strip her of her title if it is shown that her win was connected to her relationship with Garc\u00eda. Nuestra Belleza Mexico, the pageant's ruling body, has released a statement saying it knew nothing about \"any illicit activity in which she could be involved\". According to authorities, there is little mystery about the connection: traffickers like to accessorise their wealth with attractive women, and none are so highly valued as beauty queens.For Garc\u00eda, though, his arrest signals both the resolve of the Mexican government to curb the war between drug cartels and the relative decline of the Ju\u00e1rez cartel that once dominated the illicit border trade between Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and El Paso on the US side.Ten years ago, under the control of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"Lord of the Skies\", the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful in the country. But Carrillo died in 1997 after botched plastic surgery and control of the gang fell to his brother, Vicente. That arrangement collapsed in 2004. Vicente went into hiding, and leadership was taken over by Garc\u00eda's brother, Ricardo. Before Ricardo was arrested three years ago, the cartel was still estimated to control 20% of Mexican narcotics sold on US street and earn as much as $1bn a month. But without strong leadership the Ju\u00e1rez cartel is now a shadow of its former self.After being arrested, Z\u00fa\u00f1iga told police she and her boyfriend were planning to go shopping in Bolivia and Colombia. But Z\u00fa\u00f1iga had told her father she was going to a Christmas party in Guadalajara. Jes\u00fas Esteb\u00e1n Z\u00fa\u00f1iga said he was not willing to accept that his daughter had fallen in with drug traffickers. \"She's a good daughter,\" he said. \"She's always focused on her work and she's had a spotless reputation ... until now.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fears 'adoption' of beauty queens by drug cartels"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:48:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has become one of the first developing countries to set a specific carbon reduction target, with a pledge to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.Juan Rafael Elvira, Mexico's environment secretary, told UN climate talks in Poznan, Poland that the target was intended to challenge other countries to take action.The pledge is on 2002 levels. Mexico produced more than 430m tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2006, making it the 13th largest emitter in the world.Elvira said the target would be met with clean and efficient technologies, such as wind and solar power. Mexico also plans a domestic cap-and-trade system by 2012 to cut emissions from certain sectors, such as cement and oil refining.Fernando Tudela, the country's deputy environment secretary, said: \"This is a very aggressive goal for our country, but we are confident we can achieve it with international assistance.\" He hoped it would spark \"similar action by other developing countries.\"Costa Rica has pledged to go carbon neutral by 2021 under a UN scheme.Environmentalists at the talks have strongly criticised some of the world's richest countries, saying they have done too little to battle global warming.But many developing countries have been praised for specific plans to fight climate change.Keith Allott, the World Wildlife Fund's head of climate change, said: \"This move by Mexico confirms a trend we have been seeing all through these talks, with the developing world coming up with the innovative ideas on how to move to a low carbon pathway. Unfortunately, the developed world has its fingers in its ears and is sitting on its hands.\"", "tags": ["Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Mexico", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico leads the way in Poznan with carbon reduction pledge"},{"date": "2008-11-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's efforts to get to grips with spiralling drug crime and corruption suffered a blow at the weekend when one of the country's top police officers resigned amid allegations that drugs cartels had infiltrated his department.Gerardo Garay, the head of Mexico's military-style federal police force, stepped down to head off suspicion that he was working for a major drugs cartel. \"I am resigning because the bloody fight against organised crime makes it our duty to strengthen institutions, which means it is essential to eliminate any shadows of doubt regarding me,\" Garay told a press conference. \"I will put myself at the disposal of the judicial authorities.\" He denied any wrong in the federal police force, and an official statement from the chief prosecutor's office at the weekend indicated he is not under investigation.But the decision is the latest episode in the government's desperate battle to control the drug gangs who have been infiltrating Mexico's security forces as one prong of their strategy within an increasingly no-holds-barred organised crime war.Press reports have linked one of Garay's closest lieutenants to the Sinaloa cartel, which is a major protagonist in the drug wars. On Saturday the daily newspaper Reformer said the federal police had effectively \"sold\" control of the customs operations at Mexico City's international airport to the gang. So-called \"narco banners\" have also recently accused Garay of protecting Sinaloa-associated drug lords. Narco banners are propaganda messages purporting to be from different trafficking organisation that usually seek to discredit a rival gang, and are often hung from pedestrian bridges over major roads.Mexico's deepening drugs crisis started four years ago as a fairly straightforward, if brutal, competition between different gangs. They are fighting for control of routes for trafficking cocaine from Colombia, as well as a growing domestic users market.Then a military-led crackdown launched by President Felipe Calderon in December 2006 both complicated who was fighting who, and triggered a dramatic escalation of the violence. Execution-style murders have risen to close to 4,000 so far this year, including dozens of decapitations as well as a growing number of civilian victims with no obvious association with either drug trafficking or the security forces.Some analysts believe the cartels have also increased the amount of effort and funds dedicated to corrupting the authorities.This is not the first time the federal police have been under suspicion. Garay took over as acting commissioner of the force six months ago, after his predecessor was killed by a hired assassin outside his parents' home in Mexico City. The gunman not only knew the supposedly secret movements of the police chief; he also had a key to the external door.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Top Mexico police chief resigns over drug cartel allegations"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican politicians were yesterday calling for an investigation into ties between the nation's popular beauty pageants and leading drug cartels, after the reigning Miss Sinaloa, Laura Z\u00fa\u00f1iga Huizar, was arrested last week travelling near Guadalajara in the company of a top trafficker and an arsenal of weaponry.Z\u00fa\u00f1iga, a 23-year-old former kindergarten teacher, was detained with boyfriend \u00c1ngel Orlando Garc\u00eda Urquiza, a key player in the Ju\u00e1rez cartel, and six bodyguards, when their convoy was stopped at a military checkpoint last Monday. Mexican authorities were astonished to find the beauty queen with traffickers on their way to Bolivia, armed with assault rifles, pistols and ammunition clips, 16 cell phones and about $53,000 (\u00a336,345) in cash.It is now feared that Z\u00fa\u00f1iga's arrest is confirmation that even \"clean\" elements of Mexican society are no longer beyond the reach of the drug cartels. In their course of business, it is believed that the drug lords may have \"adopted\" performers, including beauty queens. Officials from Sinaloa, a northern state of Mexico, say pageant organisers may have fast-tracked Z\u00fa\u00f1iga to victory in July when she was crowned Miss Sinaloa after coming third in the Miss Mexico contest. \"It is very sad. What we are seeing is a loss of values among young people,\" noted Juan Francisco Rivera, who heads the congressional public safety committee.Under Mexican law Z\u00fa\u00f1iga can be held for 40 days while police decide whether to charge her. Pageant organisers say they may strip her of her title if it is shown that her win was connected to her relationship with Garc\u00eda. Nuestra Belleza Mexico, the pageant's ruling body, has released a statement saying it knew nothing about \"any illicit activity in which she could be involved\". According to authorities, there is little mystery about the connection: traffickers like to accessorise their wealth with attractive women, and none are so highly valued as beauty queens.For Garc\u00eda, though, his arrest signals both the resolve of the Mexican government to curb the war between drug cartels and the relative decline of the Ju\u00e1rez cartel that once dominated the illicit border trade between Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and El Paso on the US side.Ten years ago, under the control of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"Lord of the Skies\", the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful in the country. But Carrillo died in 1997 after botched plastic surgery and control of the gang fell to his brother, Vicente. That arrangement collapsed in 2004. Vicente went into hiding, and leadership was taken over by Garc\u00eda's brother, Ricardo. Before Ricardo was arrested three years ago, the cartel was still estimated to control 20% of Mexican narcotics sold on US street and earn as much as $1bn a month. But without strong leadership the Ju\u00e1rez cartel is now a shadow of its former self.After being arrested, Z\u00fa\u00f1iga told police she and her boyfriend were planning to go shopping in Bolivia and Colombia. But Z\u00fa\u00f1iga had told her father she was going to a Christmas party in Guadalajara. Jes\u00fas Esteb\u00e1n Z\u00fa\u00f1iga said he was not willing to accept that his daughter had fallen in with drug traffickers. \"She's a good daughter,\" he said. \"She's always focused on her work and she's had a spotless reputation ... until now.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fears 'adoption' of beauty queens by drug cartels"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:48:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has become one of the first developing countries to set a specific carbon reduction target, with a pledge to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.Juan Rafael Elvira, Mexico's environment secretary, told UN climate talks in Poznan, Poland that the target was intended to challenge other countries to take action.The pledge is on 2002 levels. Mexico produced more than 430m tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2006, making it the 13th largest emitter in the world.Elvira said the target would be met with clean and efficient technologies, such as wind and solar power. Mexico also plans a domestic cap-and-trade system by 2012 to cut emissions from certain sectors, such as cement and oil refining.Fernando Tudela, the country's deputy environment secretary, said: \"This is a very aggressive goal for our country, but we are confident we can achieve it with international assistance.\" He hoped it would spark \"similar action by other developing countries.\"Costa Rica has pledged to go carbon neutral by 2021 under a UN scheme.Environmentalists at the talks have strongly criticised some of the world's richest countries, saying they have done too little to battle global warming.But many developing countries have been praised for specific plans to fight climate change.Keith Allott, the World Wildlife Fund's head of climate change, said: \"This move by Mexico confirms a trend we have been seeing all through these talks, with the developing world coming up with the innovative ideas on how to move to a low carbon pathway. Unfortunately, the developed world has its fingers in its ears and is sitting on its hands.\"", "tags": ["Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Mexico", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico leads the way in Poznan with carbon reduction pledge"},{"date": "2008-11-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's efforts to get to grips with spiralling drug crime and corruption suffered a blow at the weekend when one of the country's top police officers resigned amid allegations that drugs cartels had infiltrated his department.Gerardo Garay, the head of Mexico's military-style federal police force, stepped down to head off suspicion that he was working for a major drugs cartel. \"I am resigning because the bloody fight against organised crime makes it our duty to strengthen institutions, which means it is essential to eliminate any shadows of doubt regarding me,\" Garay told a press conference. \"I will put myself at the disposal of the judicial authorities.\" He denied any wrong in the federal police force, and an official statement from the chief prosecutor's office at the weekend indicated he is not under investigation.But the decision is the latest episode in the government's desperate battle to control the drug gangs who have been infiltrating Mexico's security forces as one prong of their strategy within an increasingly no-holds-barred organised crime war.Press reports have linked one of Garay's closest lieutenants to the Sinaloa cartel, which is a major protagonist in the drug wars. On Saturday the daily newspaper Reformer said the federal police had effectively \"sold\" control of the customs operations at Mexico City's international airport to the gang. So-called \"narco banners\" have also recently accused Garay of protecting Sinaloa-associated drug lords. Narco banners are propaganda messages purporting to be from different trafficking organisation that usually seek to discredit a rival gang, and are often hung from pedestrian bridges over major roads.Mexico's deepening drugs crisis started four years ago as a fairly straightforward, if brutal, competition between different gangs. They are fighting for control of routes for trafficking cocaine from Colombia, as well as a growing domestic users market.Then a military-led crackdown launched by President Felipe Calderon in December 2006 both complicated who was fighting who, and triggered a dramatic escalation of the violence. Execution-style murders have risen to close to 4,000 so far this year, including dozens of decapitations as well as a growing number of civilian victims with no obvious association with either drug trafficking or the security forces.Some analysts believe the cartels have also increased the amount of effort and funds dedicated to corrupting the authorities.This is not the first time the federal police have been under suspicion. Garay took over as acting commissioner of the force six months ago, after his predecessor was killed by a hired assassin outside his parents' home in Mexico City. The gunman not only knew the supposedly secret movements of the police chief; he also had a key to the external door.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Top Mexico police chief resigns over drug cartel allegations"},{"date": "2008-10-24T15:24:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Being Juan MalkovichThere are multiple John Malkovichs in the multiplex this autumn: he plays an ousted CIA man in Burn After Reading, appears in Clint Eastwood's Changeling and has a cameo in The Mutant Chronicles. This week, it was announced that the busy actor is also returning to theatre, and will direct a play in Mexico City. The Good Canary, which opens next month, follows an author whose career is derailed as his wife succumbs to drug addiction. The play, written by the American Zach Helm, will be performed in Spanish. Diego Luna will play the lead role at the Insurgentes theatre. Last year, Malkovich directed a French-language production of Helm's play in Paris, and won the best director gong at the Moli\u00e8re awards. Corr blimey!Singer Andrea Corr, who shot to fame with her siblings in the Corrs, will make her West End stage debut next year. She will star alongside Niamh Cusack and Susan Lynch in a revival of Brian Friel's Dancing at Lughnasa at the Old Vic. The play, which follows five sisters in rural Ireland, will be directed by Anna Mackmin. The Old Vic's 2009 lineup also finds Kevin Spacey directing an in-the-round production of Complicit, a political drama by Joe Sutton, which will receive its world premiere at the theatre.BAM MendesMeanwhile, Sam Mendes will direct Old Vic revivals of two classic plays as part of the Bridge Project, a collaboration with Neal Street Productions and the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM), designed - in Mendes's words - to \"bring classics to a new audience\". The Cherry Orchard (newly translated by Tom Stoppard) and The Winter's Tale will be performed in rep with a cast including Ethan Hawke and Simon Russell Beale.McAvoy's Apollo missionThe Apollo and the Duke of York's have also announced star draws to help them kick-start 2009. James McAvoy takes time out from his blossoming Hollywood career to star in Richard Greenberg's Three Days of Rain, which opens for previews at the Apollo from January 30 2009. He is joined by EastEnders' Nigel Harman in the story of childhood friends unlocking family secrets from the past. The Duke of York's is reviving Arthur Miller's A View from the Bridge with Ken Stott and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Stott, who became the face of Ian Rankin's Rebus on TV, recently starred in Yasmina Reza's God of Carnage. Mastrantonio is best known for playing Maid Marian in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, and earned a Tony nomination on Broadway for Man of La Mancha.Not many happy returnsThere was a bittersweet celebration for Avenue Q at the Noel Coward theatre last night. The feelgood musical, which follows the ups and downs of foul-mouthed puppets on a shabby New York street, celebrated its 1000th performance at the theatre. And as the cast joked after the final curtain, here's to the next 150! The gala show came days after the announcement that the musical will close on March 28 2009. It will be replaced by a West End transfer of Calendar Girls, penned by the film's original screenwriter Tim Firth. Calendar Girls enjoyed a sold-out run at the Chichester Festival theatre last month and stars Patricia Hodge and Gaynor Faye as Yorkshire villagers who strip off to raise money for charity. Come to the cabaretLiza Minnelli will take up a two-week residency at the Palace on Broadway in December, marking her first performances on the Great White Way in almost a decade. The show, Liza's at the Palace, will find Minnelli backed by a 12-piece orchestra and belting out several Kander and Ebb songs, such as New York, New York. Minnelli will be joined by a quartet of dancers for a high-kicking tribute to her godmother Kay Thompson. The routine will resurrect Thompson's celebrated cabaret act of the 1940s. Minnelli's mother, Judy Garland, appeared at the Palace herself in the 50s; Liza last appeared there in 1999, when she performed songs from Garland's films.Fasten your seatbeltsThe big Broadway opening of the week was the Barrymore theatre's Speed-the-Plow, which has enjoyed rave reviews to rival the Old Vic's recent production with Kevin Spacey and Jeff Goldblum. Neil Pepe directs this revival of David Mamet's scathing play about Hollywood, starring Entourage's Jeremy Piven in his Broadway debut. For Variety's David Rooney, Piven's \"tightly wound physicality and easy command of rapid-fire, hectoring dialogue make him a natural fit for Mamet\". New York Times critic Ben Brantley says the Barrymore theatre \"should provide seat belts\" as the play \"pursues its corkscrew course at such velocity that your instinct is to check yourself for whiplash \u2026 Is cynicism supposed to be this energizing?\"", "tags": ["Liza Minnelli", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Musicals", "West End", "Broadway", "Music"], "title": "Stage news roundup: Malkovich in Mexico, Liza at the Palace"},{"date": "2008-12-22T18:37:56Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican authorities are investigating the violent deaths of eight soldiers, whose decapitated bodies were found after one of the most brazen attacks yet by the country's drug cartels.The severed heads were found on Sunday morning in black plastic bags dumped near a superstore in the southern city of Chilpancingo. Their bodies were recovered along two motorways leading to the coastal resort of Acapulco 50 miles away.All the victims were wearing civilian clothes, with unofficial reports suggesting they were picked up after leaving their barracks on a few days' leave.The military is at the forefront of a two-year-old campaign against the cartels that control cocaine trafficking to the US as well as local production of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine, and a growing market of local users.A defence ministry statement called the murders \"cowardly acts by criminal organisations seeking to scare off the armed forces.\"Mexican newspapers cited a note found beside the heads warning: \"For every one of ours you kill, we will kill 10 of yours.\" The note prompted speculation of a direct revenge attack after the deaths of three gang members nearby on Friday, killed in a shootout with soldiers. Propaganda messages have become a regular feature of Mexico's escalating drug violence which has killed 5,300 people this year, already double the record total of 2007.The vast majority of the victims are low-level members of rival gangs killed in a turf war raging around the country.Quelling the violence was the original aim of the offensive launched by President Felipe Calder\u00f3n in December 2006, but the rate of violent deaths has continued to rise. Members of the security forces make up about 10% of the overall death toll, although most victims belong to notoriously corrupt police forces which means their murders are often treated as an extension of the inter-gang rivalry.The army has a cleaner reputation \u2013 one of the major reasons for its prominent role in the recent crackdown. It also explains why the weekend's decapitations have been greeted with such shock in Mexico.A ninth head found at the weekend belonging to a former police chief was given far less attention in a country where there have been dozens of non-military decapitations so far this year.The government has reacted to growing criticism of its offensive by claiming that the escalation in violence is a sign that the gangs are becoming desperate, a line repeated by the defence ministry.\"They are the consequence of the severe blows we have delivered to criminal organisations in this area who now feel cornered,\" it read, pledging to continue the fight.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Decapitated bodies of eight soldiers found in Mexico after drug cartel attack"},{"date": "2008-10-18T05:55:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Race in America isn't simply a black and white issue. Here in New Mexico it's a black-brown issue, with tensions between the state's Hispanic community and African-Americans as well as between Hispanics and newer Mexican immigrants.It is those tensions that claimed a Republican leader last month after a blog-driven uproar over comments about whether the state's Hispanics would vote for Barack Obama.Demographically, New Mexico is unique. No ethnic group makes up a majority of the population, and the state is one of a handful of \"minority majority\" states in the US, said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent. It makes the racial dynamics of the state more complex than most states in the US. Hispanics make up 44% of the population, Native Americans 10%, African-Americans a small percentage and the rest of the population is whites or Anglos as they are commonly referred to in the Southwest, Trip said.Even within the Hispanic community, there are divisions. The fact that the word Hispanic, or Hispano, is still commonly used sets New Mexico apart from other states. Hispanic fell out of use because it refers to someone of Spanish descent. The broader term Latino is more common in the US now. But many Hispanics in northern New Mexico still use this term because they trace their ancestry to the Spanish conquistadors, who first came to the area in the 16th Century. There is a tension between Hispanics who have been here for hundreds of years and newer Mexican immigrants, and there are historical tensions between Hispanics and the Native American nations here.These racial issues took the spotlight after comments by the chairman of the Republican Party of Bernalillo County, which includes the state's largest city, Albuquerque. Last month, a BBC reporter quoted Fernando C de Baca in a blog post as saying that \"Hispanics consider themselves above blacks\". Mr C de Baca added:The truth is that Hispanics came here as conquerors. African-Americans came here as slaves. Hispanics consider themselves above blacks. They won't vote for a black president.He said that his comments were taken out of context and that he wasn't referring to his own beliefs but rather those of Hispanics who grew up before the Civil Rights movement. \"That stirred a whole hornet's nest of controversy,\" Trip Jennings said.Despite his claims that his comments were taken out of context, he was forced to step down.Trip says based on reporting on his site that some, albeit a small minority of the Hispanic community, still feel some animosity towards African-Americans. This minority of the Hispanic community feel that blacks \"got a bigger piece of the pie\" due to the Civil Rights movement, Trip said.These views have also been expressed by Democrats. Earlier this year, a Democratic state senator Mary Jane Garcia here told the Rocky Mountain News in neighbouring Colorado:\"I don't know one single Hispanic over 50 who will cast a vote for Obama.\" She also conceded that \"there have always been conflicts between blacks and browns.\"In the primary races, Barack Obama lost the Hispanic vote by 61 to 35 percent to rival Hillary Clinton. But polls show that Barack Obama is doing well with Hispanics which might be one of the reasons that recent polls give him a lead in this state that George Bush won by the narrowest of margins in 2004.", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "US politics"], "title": "The complexity of race in New Mexico"},{"date": "2008-10-19T08:19:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The states of Nevada, Colorado and New Mexico are key to what has been called Barack Obama's Western strategy. All three states helped send George W Bush to a second term, but they are all leaning, even if slightly, to Obama. New Mexico shows why these states have been challenging for Democrats and also why Barack Obama might win here.We're now in Colorado. We've been to Nevada and New Mexico, and here is The Nation's Ari Melber talking about Obama's western strategy:Western Democrats, a different breedPolitics in these western states is very different than on the coasts. Take Democratic Bill Richardson for example. He touts his support for gun rights and won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has a permit to carry a concealed weapon, said Heath Haussamen who covers politics for the New Mexico Independent.John McCain's message of \"drill, baby, drill\" also plays well in this oil and natural gas producing state, Heath said. The Yates Petroleum Company headquartered here is the largest holder of oil and gas drilling leases on federal land in the West, and it's been an important industry for the state.This is a traditionally Democatic state, but the majority of Democrats are conservative Hispanic Democrats, Heath said, and they supported President Bush on the war longer than many other groups.\"They are pro-drilling, pro-life, big 2nd amendment supporters, but they also believe in welfare and unions. New Mexico voters have tended to send moderate Republicans to Washington, but the state has been trending leftward,\" Heath said.Economic concernsThe state is one of the least affected by the housing crisis, and 25% of jobs in the state are for either the state or federal government, said New Mexico political blogger Joe Monahan. Despite that, as with the rest of the country, the economy is the biggest issue.When I interviewed Joe, he was working on a story about a possible budget crunch in the state, and the state's most populous county had just announced a $10m budget shortfall.Heath lives in Las Cruces in the south of the state, and there are $200m in state or federal construction projects in the city alone. \"People are concerned that the government will have to cut back on spending to pay for financial bailout.\"A month ago, New Mexico was a toss-up state, but now, \"the consensus is that Obama has the edge,\" Heath said. RealClearPolitics shows Obama with an average 8.4% lead based on polls in the state.Two things in the last four years that have changed to help Barack Obama, Joe said. \"National security issue is not quite as dominant as an issue, and economic security is.\"Obama's organisationOne thing that we're seeing in the states we're driving through is the presence of the Obama campaign and the enthusiasm of his supporters. In New Mexico, Obama has 40 field offices to McCain's 10. That number of field offices is unheard of, Heath said.Barack Obama has also been reaching out to Native American voters, which make up 10% of the state. They have volunteers and paid staff focused on getting out the vote in the native nations. They have held rallies focused on Native voters. \"The Obama campaign isn't taking anything for granted,\" said Trip Jennings, the news editor for the New Mexico Independent.Joe says that it's important not to over-emphasise the advantage in field offices and ground organisation by Democrats because theri voters tend to be less reliable. They have to work harder to get them to the polls. John McCain has run a more traditional campaign relying on phone banks and direct mail. Republicans appeal to a \"more likely voter\" so don't have to put as much effort to get voters out, he said.Also in Obama's favour is that Governor Bill Richardson has also been a strong ally since he decided to endorse him over Hillary Clinton, even though he had served in Bill Clinton's administration, setting off the former president's famous anger.Governor Richardson has been a major fundraiser for Obama, bringing in $2m for the presidential campaign at a recent event, and he's helped Obama navigate the unique politics of the state.The final stretchTwo weeks before the election, Joe says that Obama doesn't have the kind of lead that assures victory. \"There are a lot of voters who can be influenced by whatever is the last thing they see. While this election looks likes its trending Democrat and Obama, I don't think the margin is enough to rule out some kind of major development that could lead to an upset.\"The campaigns are fighting hard for the state's votes. Joe Biden campaigned in southern New Mexico this week, and Sarah Palin is coming to Roswell.A number of people I've spoke to along the way have said that whoever wins the presidential election will actually lose because the problems facing the country are so great, but Joe disagrees.He said: \"The next president is going to have a terrible job, but out of a terrible situation can come often come greatness. You would not have had an FDR without the Depresion. You would not have had a Lincoln with the Civil War. This is really going to test whoever wins the White House.\"", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "New Mexico", "Colorado", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico and Barack Obama's Western Strategy"},{"date": "2008-10-13T08:26:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two men who attacked the US consulate in the northern Mexican city of Monterrey remain at large, government officials said today.A Mexican government official said one of the men had opened fire on the consulate. The other threw a grenade at the building but it failed to explode, according to a newspaper report.A spokeswoman for the attorney general's office said bullet casings had been found outside the consulate but there were no witnesses and no one was in custody.Citing a US embassy statement, the newspaper El Universal said the attack happened before dawn yesterday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: Two men attack US consulate"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican politicians were yesterday calling for an investigation into ties between the nation's popular beauty pageants and leading drug cartels, after the reigning Miss Sinaloa, Laura Z\u00fa\u00f1iga Huizar, was arrested last week travelling near Guadalajara in the company of a top trafficker and an arsenal of weaponry.Z\u00fa\u00f1iga, a 23-year-old former kindergarten teacher, was detained with boyfriend \u00c1ngel Orlando Garc\u00eda Urquiza, a key player in the Ju\u00e1rez cartel, and six bodyguards, when their convoy was stopped at a military checkpoint last Monday. Mexican authorities were astonished to find the beauty queen with traffickers on their way to Bolivia, armed with assault rifles, pistols and ammunition clips, 16 cell phones and about $53,000 (\u00a336,345) in cash.It is now feared that Z\u00fa\u00f1iga's arrest is confirmation that even \"clean\" elements of Mexican society are no longer beyond the reach of the drug cartels. In their course of business, it is believed that the drug lords may have \"adopted\" performers, including beauty queens. Officials from Sinaloa, a northern state of Mexico, say pageant organisers may have fast-tracked Z\u00fa\u00f1iga to victory in July when she was crowned Miss Sinaloa after coming third in the Miss Mexico contest. \"It is very sad. What we are seeing is a loss of values among young people,\" noted Juan Francisco Rivera, who heads the congressional public safety committee.Under Mexican law Z\u00fa\u00f1iga can be held for 40 days while police decide whether to charge her. Pageant organisers say they may strip her of her title if it is shown that her win was connected to her relationship with Garc\u00eda. Nuestra Belleza Mexico, the pageant's ruling body, has released a statement saying it knew nothing about \"any illicit activity in which she could be involved\". According to authorities, there is little mystery about the connection: traffickers like to accessorise their wealth with attractive women, and none are so highly valued as beauty queens.For Garc\u00eda, though, his arrest signals both the resolve of the Mexican government to curb the war between drug cartels and the relative decline of the Ju\u00e1rez cartel that once dominated the illicit border trade between Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and El Paso on the US side.Ten years ago, under the control of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"Lord of the Skies\", the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful in the country. But Carrillo died in 1997 after botched plastic surgery and control of the gang fell to his brother, Vicente. That arrangement collapsed in 2004. Vicente went into hiding, and leadership was taken over by Garc\u00eda's brother, Ricardo. Before Ricardo was arrested three years ago, the cartel was still estimated to control 20% of Mexican narcotics sold on US street and earn as much as $1bn a month. But without strong leadership the Ju\u00e1rez cartel is now a shadow of its former self.After being arrested, Z\u00fa\u00f1iga told police she and her boyfriend were planning to go shopping in Bolivia and Colombia. But Z\u00fa\u00f1iga had told her father she was going to a Christmas party in Guadalajara. Jes\u00fas Esteb\u00e1n Z\u00fa\u00f1iga said he was not willing to accept that his daughter had fallen in with drug traffickers. \"She's a good daughter,\" he said. \"She's always focused on her work and she's had a spotless reputation ... until now.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico fears 'adoption' of beauty queens by drug cartels"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:48:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has become one of the first developing countries to set a specific carbon reduction target, with a pledge to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.Juan Rafael Elvira, Mexico's environment secretary, told UN climate talks in Poznan, Poland that the target was intended to challenge other countries to take action.The pledge is on 2002 levels. Mexico produced more than 430m tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2006, making it the 13th largest emitter in the world.Elvira said the target would be met with clean and efficient technologies, such as wind and solar power. Mexico also plans a domestic cap-and-trade system by 2012 to cut emissions from certain sectors, such as cement and oil refining.Fernando Tudela, the country's deputy environment secretary, said: \"This is a very aggressive goal for our country, but we are confident we can achieve it with international assistance.\" He hoped it would spark \"similar action by other developing countries.\"Costa Rica has pledged to go carbon neutral by 2021 under a UN scheme.Environmentalists at the talks have strongly criticised some of the world's richest countries, saying they have done too little to battle global warming.But many developing countries have been praised for specific plans to fight climate change.Keith Allott, the World Wildlife Fund's head of climate change, said: \"This move by Mexico confirms a trend we have been seeing all through these talks, with the developing world coming up with the innovative ideas on how to move to a low carbon pathway. Unfortunately, the developed world has its fingers in its ears and is sitting on its hands.\"", "tags": ["Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Mexico", "World news", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico leads the way in Poznan with carbon reduction pledge"},{"date": "2008-11-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's efforts to get to grips with spiralling drug crime and corruption suffered a blow at the weekend when one of the country's top police officers resigned amid allegations that drugs cartels had infiltrated his department.Gerardo Garay, the head of Mexico's military-style federal police force, stepped down to head off suspicion that he was working for a major drugs cartel. \"I am resigning because the bloody fight against organised crime makes it our duty to strengthen institutions, which means it is essential to eliminate any shadows of doubt regarding me,\" Garay told a press conference. \"I will put myself at the disposal of the judicial authorities.\" He denied any wrong in the federal police force, and an official statement from the chief prosecutor's office at the weekend indicated he is not under investigation.But the decision is the latest episode in the government's desperate battle to control the drug gangs who have been infiltrating Mexico's security forces as one prong of their strategy within an increasingly no-holds-barred organised crime war.Press reports have linked one of Garay's closest lieutenants to the Sinaloa cartel, which is a major protagonist in the drug wars. On Saturday the daily newspaper Reformer said the federal police had effectively \"sold\" control of the customs operations at Mexico City's international airport to the gang. So-called \"narco banners\" have also recently accused Garay of protecting Sinaloa-associated drug lords. Narco banners are propaganda messages purporting to be from different trafficking organisation that usually seek to discredit a rival gang, and are often hung from pedestrian bridges over major roads.Mexico's deepening drugs crisis started four years ago as a fairly straightforward, if brutal, competition between different gangs. They are fighting for control of routes for trafficking cocaine from Colombia, as well as a growing domestic users market.Then a military-led crackdown launched by President Felipe Calderon in December 2006 both complicated who was fighting who, and triggered a dramatic escalation of the violence. Execution-style murders have risen to close to 4,000 so far this year, including dozens of decapitations as well as a growing number of civilian victims with no obvious association with either drug trafficking or the security forces.Some analysts believe the cartels have also increased the amount of effort and funds dedicated to corrupting the authorities.This is not the first time the federal police have been under suspicion. Garay took over as acting commissioner of the force six months ago, after his predecessor was killed by a hired assassin outside his parents' home in Mexico City. The gunman not only knew the supposedly secret movements of the police chief; he also had a key to the external door.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Top Mexico police chief resigns over drug cartel allegations"},{"date": "2008-10-24T15:24:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Being Juan MalkovichThere are multiple John Malkovichs in the multiplex this autumn: he plays an ousted CIA man in Burn After Reading, appears in Clint Eastwood's Changeling and has a cameo in The Mutant Chronicles. This week, it was announced that the busy actor is also returning to theatre, and will direct a play in Mexico City. The Good Canary, which opens next month, follows an author whose career is derailed as his wife succumbs to drug addiction. The play, written by the American Zach Helm, will be performed in Spanish. Diego Luna will play the lead role at the Insurgentes theatre. Last year, Malkovich directed a French-language production of Helm's play in Paris, and won the best director gong at the Moli\u00e8re awards. Corr blimey!Singer Andrea Corr, who shot to fame with her siblings in the Corrs, will make her West End stage debut next year. She will star alongside Niamh Cusack and Susan Lynch in a revival of Brian Friel's Dancing at Lughnasa at the Old Vic. The play, which follows five sisters in rural Ireland, will be directed by Anna Mackmin. The Old Vic's 2009 lineup also finds Kevin Spacey directing an in-the-round production of Complicit, a political drama by Joe Sutton, which will receive its world premiere at the theatre.BAM MendesMeanwhile, Sam Mendes will direct Old Vic revivals of two classic plays as part of the Bridge Project, a collaboration with Neal Street Productions and the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM), designed - in Mendes's words - to \"bring classics to a new audience\". The Cherry Orchard (newly translated by Tom Stoppard) and The Winter's Tale will be performed in rep with a cast including Ethan Hawke and Simon Russell Beale.McAvoy's Apollo missionThe Apollo and the Duke of York's have also announced star draws to help them kick-start 2009. James McAvoy takes time out from his blossoming Hollywood career to star in Richard Greenberg's Three Days of Rain, which opens for previews at the Apollo from January 30 2009. He is joined by EastEnders' Nigel Harman in the story of childhood friends unlocking family secrets from the past. The Duke of York's is reviving Arthur Miller's A View from the Bridge with Ken Stott and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Stott, who became the face of Ian Rankin's Rebus on TV, recently starred in Yasmina Reza's God of Carnage. Mastrantonio is best known for playing Maid Marian in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, and earned a Tony nomination on Broadway for Man of La Mancha.Not many happy returnsThere was a bittersweet celebration for Avenue Q at the Noel Coward theatre last night. The feelgood musical, which follows the ups and downs of foul-mouthed puppets on a shabby New York street, celebrated its 1000th performance at the theatre. And as the cast joked after the final curtain, here's to the next 150! The gala show came days after the announcement that the musical will close on March 28 2009. It will be replaced by a West End transfer of Calendar Girls, penned by the film's original screenwriter Tim Firth. Calendar Girls enjoyed a sold-out run at the Chichester Festival theatre last month and stars Patricia Hodge and Gaynor Faye as Yorkshire villagers who strip off to raise money for charity. Come to the cabaretLiza Minnelli will take up a two-week residency at the Palace on Broadway in December, marking her first performances on the Great White Way in almost a decade. The show, Liza's at the Palace, will find Minnelli backed by a 12-piece orchestra and belting out several Kander and Ebb songs, such as New York, New York. Minnelli will be joined by a quartet of dancers for a high-kicking tribute to her godmother Kay Thompson. The routine will resurrect Thompson's celebrated cabaret act of the 1940s. Minnelli's mother, Judy Garland, appeared at the Palace herself in the 50s; Liza last appeared there in 1999, when she performed songs from Garland's films.Fasten your seatbeltsThe big Broadway opening of the week was the Barrymore theatre's Speed-the-Plow, which has enjoyed rave reviews to rival the Old Vic's recent production with Kevin Spacey and Jeff Goldblum. Neil Pepe directs this revival of David Mamet's scathing play about Hollywood, starring Entourage's Jeremy Piven in his Broadway debut. For Variety's David Rooney, Piven's \"tightly wound physicality and easy command of rapid-fire, hectoring dialogue make him a natural fit for Mamet\". New York Times critic Ben Brantley says the Barrymore theatre \"should provide seat belts\" as the play \"pursues its corkscrew course at such velocity that your instinct is to check yourself for whiplash \u2026 Is cynicism supposed to be this energizing?\"", "tags": ["Liza Minnelli", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Musicals", "West End", "Broadway", "Music"], "title": "Stage news roundup: Malkovich in Mexico, Liza at the Palace"},{"date": "2008-10-19T06:35:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Road Trip, Day 7. This morning we set off early for a long drive north from Albuquerque to Colorado Springs, where we hope to get a whiff of the famed evangelical Christian fervor the city is famous for, and see Sarah Palin in person at a rally on Monday morning. One hour out, we decided to stop off at a political rally in Santa Fe, where state politicians were supposed to lead locals in an early voting drive to the polls. When we got there the place looked dead, and we decided it was a bust. But one of the team had to find a toilet, and disappeared for the longest time into a building. Finally reappearing, he motioned to us to follow him around the corner. And there were the voters: not 10 or 20, but a good 75, waiting in the sun for as long as 2 hours, with more people joining the line all the time. So here in Santa Fe was first proof of what both Republicans and Democrats fear, though for entirely different reasons: a huge turnout that is certain to favor Obama, but would also swamp the polls and overtax the state's voting system. Brian Egolf, who is running for state representative from Santa Fe, told me he believed the turnout would be an unheard of 85 percent. Emerging from the voting booth in his wheelchair, Joe Parker, a state employee, told me that he had been turned away from voting at the primary and wasn't going to have that happen again. \"I want to be sure there are no problems,\" he said with a tight smile, explaining that ballots in New Mexico had a way of getting \"lost.\" By voting early with a paper ballot, he hoped to ensure that his vote would be actually be counted. Others expressed the same sentiments, fearing for the worst in a state with a wretched recent record of failure at the ballot box.Our researcher Jean Casella, who is tracking voter suppression from state to state as we cross the country, sent me the following rundown of the massive problems that plagued the 2004 election here in New Mexico: The results showed a sky-high rate of \"undervotes\"\u2014ballots that have been cast but do not include a vote in a particular contest. According to the group VoteTrustUSA,New Mexico led the nation in the undervotes with an astonishing one out of every 36 ballots missing a vote for president. The total undervotes came to over 21,000\u2014more than five times the margin of victory in that election, which George W. Bush won by fewer than 4,000 votes. Because New Mexico's five electoral votes would not have changed the outcome of the 2004 race, this massive loss of votes received relatively little attention. But it drove home the risks of electronic voting. An analysis by VotersUnite.org revealed that \"more than 80% of New Mexico's undervotes were recorded (or, more accurately, not recorded)\" on Direct Recording Electronic (DRE) voting machines,\" with no verifiable paper trails. Amid protests and lawsuits, Governor Bill Richardson in 2006 signed a state law banning the machines and requiring paper ballots. He warned other states against the technology, saying, \"One person, one vote is in jeopardy.\" That year's election saw a huge drop in the undervote rate. With mandated paper ballots, New Mexico is not likely to relive the travesty of 2004. But now there are worries about the machines that count the paper ballots, as well as about shortages of ballots and of polling places. Once burned, New Mexicans have good reason to be worried about their votes being counted.\u2022 This article was amended on Monday October 20 2008. Above we said that New Mexico has four electoral votes, it has five. This has been changed.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "US elections 2008", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Day seven: New Mexico, land of lost votes"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-01-30T18:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Violent deaths were as common in Mexico as in Iraq in 2008. Almost 6,000 people were shot, decapitated or otherwise \"disappeared\" and over 700 kidnapped in the escalating battle between drug traffickers. The carnage is particularly severe in border cities like Ju\u00e1rez, where the death toll has reached 1,607. On Mexico's independence day, men apparently linked to drug cartels threw a pair of grenades into a festive crowd, killing eight and maiming dozens.In its last days in office, the Bush administration came to the drastic conclusion that Mexico may soon become a failed state. The Joint Forces Command has compared Mexico to Pakistan, arguing that both may be on the verge of a \"rapid and sudden collapse\" [pdf]. General Barry McCaffrey, a former Army chief under Bush, organised a high level, semi-secret strategy meeting in December where he presented a report that claims that \"Mexico is on the edge of the abyss \u2014 it could become a narco-state in the coming decade\".Paradoxically, these grim prognostications are frequently accompanied by a blind faith in Mexico\u00b4s president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Columnists and news reports view the increase in violence as an indication of the effectiveness of the government's strategy, which has provoked gangs to fight amongst themselves and to take revenge on the government. The US Congress has supported Calder\u00f3n with its Merida Initiative of June 2008. This committed $1.4bn of military assistance to Mexico and Central America, on the theory that high-tech helicopters and listening devices can solve the problem. Both the exaggerated claims about the possible collapse of the Mexican state and the na\u00efve confidence in the Calder\u00f3n administration are mistaken. The Mexican drug cartels have no interest in taking over the government. Mexico is fundamentally different from Colombia or Afghanistan, where politics and ideology are at the centre of the agenda. Mexican drug traffickers are not terrorists or radical leftists, but savvy (and heavily armed) businessmen who corrupt government officials in order to maintain a positive \"investment climate\".The rising tide of violence is a response to the failures of the Calder\u00f3n administration. It has relied on empty public displays of force, without developing sophisticated intelligence and strategic planning against the drug cartels. Calder\u00f3n has ordered the military onto the streets. He has paraded suspected criminals before television screens. He has created an abstract national pact, which fails to include specific benchmarks or indicators of success.This grandstanding has been entirely ineffective. According to a recent independent study, only 17% of suspects arrested for drug offences were actually brought to court in 2008. Only a third of these were actually convicted. Calder\u00f3n's strategy has also led to serious human rights violations. Both Human Rights Watch and Mexico's Human Rights Ombudsman have strongly criticised the Mexican government for the systematic violation of basic civil rights.Perhaps the most important problem is the endemic corruption of Mexico's public security apparatus. A series of high level officials have been accused of receiving substantial bribes from drug traffickers. This includes the recent head of the special office for combating organised crime, and the last two chiefs of the Interpol office in Mexico. Nevertheless, no one has been convicted and most of the alleged criminals probably will walk free since the cases are based exclusively on the declarations of \"protected witnesses\" without corroboration by independent investigations.The US is also directly responsible for violence in Mexico. Drug users in the US provide the money to corrupt government officials in Mexico, while the drug cartels purchase almost all of their weapons north of the Rio Grande. The treatment of addicts and stricter gun control in the US would be an important part of the solution.If the Obama administration is serious about turning the page on its relations with Latin America, it should reassess President Bush's unthinking support of the Calder\u00f3n administration. Obama should recognise that there are many more effective allies in Mexican civil society - such as watchdog groups, journalists and scholars - and reach out to them in an effort to consolidate democracy in North America. It also wouldn't hurt to take radical measures to stem the southward flow of weapons and reduce drug consumption in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "John Ackerman: Mexico's drug trade could turn the country into a narco-state"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-01-30T18:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Violent deaths were as common in Mexico as in Iraq in 2008. Almost 6,000 people were shot, decapitated or otherwise \"disappeared\" and over 700 kidnapped in the escalating battle between drug traffickers. The carnage is particularly severe in border cities like Ju\u00e1rez, where the death toll has reached 1,607. On Mexico's independence day, men apparently linked to drug cartels threw a pair of grenades into a festive crowd, killing eight and maiming dozens.In its last days in office, the Bush administration came to the drastic conclusion that Mexico may soon become a failed state. The Joint Forces Command has compared Mexico to Pakistan, arguing that both may be on the verge of a \"rapid and sudden collapse\" [pdf]. General Barry McCaffrey, a former Army chief under Bush, organised a high level, semi-secret strategy meeting in December where he presented a report that claims that \"Mexico is on the edge of the abyss \u2014 it could become a narco-state in the coming decade\".Paradoxically, these grim prognostications are frequently accompanied by a blind faith in Mexico\u00b4s president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Columnists and news reports view the increase in violence as an indication of the effectiveness of the government's strategy, which has provoked gangs to fight amongst themselves and to take revenge on the government. The US Congress has supported Calder\u00f3n with its Merida Initiative of June 2008. This committed $1.4bn of military assistance to Mexico and Central America, on the theory that high-tech helicopters and listening devices can solve the problem. Both the exaggerated claims about the possible collapse of the Mexican state and the na\u00efve confidence in the Calder\u00f3n administration are mistaken. The Mexican drug cartels have no interest in taking over the government. Mexico is fundamentally different from Colombia or Afghanistan, where politics and ideology are at the centre of the agenda. Mexican drug traffickers are not terrorists or radical leftists, but savvy (and heavily armed) businessmen who corrupt government officials in order to maintain a positive \"investment climate\".The rising tide of violence is a response to the failures of the Calder\u00f3n administration. It has relied on empty public displays of force, without developing sophisticated intelligence and strategic planning against the drug cartels. Calder\u00f3n has ordered the military onto the streets. He has paraded suspected criminals before television screens. He has created an abstract national pact, which fails to include specific benchmarks or indicators of success.This grandstanding has been entirely ineffective. According to a recent independent study, only 17% of suspects arrested for drug offences were actually brought to court in 2008. Only a third of these were actually convicted. Calder\u00f3n's strategy has also led to serious human rights violations. Both Human Rights Watch and Mexico's Human Rights Ombudsman have strongly criticised the Mexican government for the systematic violation of basic civil rights.Perhaps the most important problem is the endemic corruption of Mexico's public security apparatus. A series of high level officials have been accused of receiving substantial bribes from drug traffickers. This includes the recent head of the special office for combating organised crime, and the last two chiefs of the Interpol office in Mexico. Nevertheless, no one has been convicted and most of the alleged criminals probably will walk free since the cases are based exclusively on the declarations of \"protected witnesses\" without corroboration by independent investigations.The US is also directly responsible for violence in Mexico. Drug users in the US provide the money to corrupt government officials in Mexico, while the drug cartels purchase almost all of their weapons north of the Rio Grande. The treatment of addicts and stricter gun control in the US would be an important part of the solution.If the Obama administration is serious about turning the page on its relations with Latin America, it should reassess President Bush's unthinking support of the Calder\u00f3n administration. Obama should recognise that there are many more effective allies in Mexican civil society - such as watchdog groups, journalists and scholars - and reach out to them in an effort to consolidate democracy in North America. It also wouldn't hurt to take radical measures to stem the southward flow of weapons and reduce drug consumption in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "John Ackerman: Mexico's drug trade could turn the country into a narco-state"},{"date": "2009-01-22T18:02:50Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade and it is by recent tradition the day on which new presidents reverse the US's position on the Mexico City rule. That was something proclaimed by Ronald Reagan in 1984 that prohibited the use of US foreign aid dollars for abortions and family planning counseling.Bill Clinton reversed Reagan on this day in 1993. Then George W. Bush reversed Clinton on this day in 2001. It has been widely expected that Obama would reverse Dubya today.But...no news yet. And today, so far, is foreign policy day, torture day, interrogations day. It would be just like Obama not to be predicable on this, to make a liberal interest group wait a few days. I don't mind sending that particular political message, but I would certainly and strenuously mind if he doesn't reverse it fairly soon. It's a damaging policy.And lo and behold, look who agrees -- the editorial board of the right-wing Pittsburgh Tribune Review, owned by the major benefactor of right-wing causes Richard Mellon Scaife. From its editorial today:It's called the Mexico City Policy. And with a stroke of a pen, President Barack Obama can end it. He should and he must. And doing so on Thursday's 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade would be the perfect punctuation mark......The Mexico City Policy was a misguided notion of likely well-meaning people that, for all intents and purposes, promoted ignorance and probably more abortions.So, you see, Democrats and liberals aren't the only ones who oftentimes fail to understand how the Law of Unintended Consequences can play out.Rescinding the Mexico City Policy might end up being the only decent thing that President Obama does in office. And he should do it posthaste.All right, that's sort of a back-handed reason for endorsing the move, but even so, it's a surprising stand.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Obama and abortion"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-01-30T18:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Violent deaths were as common in Mexico as in Iraq in 2008. Almost 6,000 people were shot, decapitated or otherwise \"disappeared\" and over 700 kidnapped in the escalating battle between drug traffickers. The carnage is particularly severe in border cities like Ju\u00e1rez, where the death toll has reached 1,607. On Mexico's independence day, men apparently linked to drug cartels threw a pair of grenades into a festive crowd, killing eight and maiming dozens.In its last days in office, the Bush administration came to the drastic conclusion that Mexico may soon become a failed state. The Joint Forces Command has compared Mexico to Pakistan, arguing that both may be on the verge of a \"rapid and sudden collapse\" [pdf]. General Barry McCaffrey, a former Army chief under Bush, organised a high level, semi-secret strategy meeting in December where he presented a report that claims that \"Mexico is on the edge of the abyss \u2014 it could become a narco-state in the coming decade\".Paradoxically, these grim prognostications are frequently accompanied by a blind faith in Mexico\u00b4s president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Columnists and news reports view the increase in violence as an indication of the effectiveness of the government's strategy, which has provoked gangs to fight amongst themselves and to take revenge on the government. The US Congress has supported Calder\u00f3n with its Merida Initiative of June 2008. This committed $1.4bn of military assistance to Mexico and Central America, on the theory that high-tech helicopters and listening devices can solve the problem. Both the exaggerated claims about the possible collapse of the Mexican state and the na\u00efve confidence in the Calder\u00f3n administration are mistaken. The Mexican drug cartels have no interest in taking over the government. Mexico is fundamentally different from Colombia or Afghanistan, where politics and ideology are at the centre of the agenda. Mexican drug traffickers are not terrorists or radical leftists, but savvy (and heavily armed) businessmen who corrupt government officials in order to maintain a positive \"investment climate\".The rising tide of violence is a response to the failures of the Calder\u00f3n administration. It has relied on empty public displays of force, without developing sophisticated intelligence and strategic planning against the drug cartels. Calder\u00f3n has ordered the military onto the streets. He has paraded suspected criminals before television screens. He has created an abstract national pact, which fails to include specific benchmarks or indicators of success.This grandstanding has been entirely ineffective. According to a recent independent study, only 17% of suspects arrested for drug offences were actually brought to court in 2008. Only a third of these were actually convicted. Calder\u00f3n's strategy has also led to serious human rights violations. Both Human Rights Watch and Mexico's Human Rights Ombudsman have strongly criticised the Mexican government for the systematic violation of basic civil rights.Perhaps the most important problem is the endemic corruption of Mexico's public security apparatus. A series of high level officials have been accused of receiving substantial bribes from drug traffickers. This includes the recent head of the special office for combating organised crime, and the last two chiefs of the Interpol office in Mexico. Nevertheless, no one has been convicted and most of the alleged criminals probably will walk free since the cases are based exclusively on the declarations of \"protected witnesses\" without corroboration by independent investigations.The US is also directly responsible for violence in Mexico. Drug users in the US provide the money to corrupt government officials in Mexico, while the drug cartels purchase almost all of their weapons north of the Rio Grande. The treatment of addicts and stricter gun control in the US would be an important part of the solution.If the Obama administration is serious about turning the page on its relations with Latin America, it should reassess President Bush's unthinking support of the Calder\u00f3n administration. Obama should recognise that there are many more effective allies in Mexican civil society - such as watchdog groups, journalists and scholars - and reach out to them in an effort to consolidate democracy in North America. It also wouldn't hurt to take radical measures to stem the southward flow of weapons and reduce drug consumption in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "John Ackerman: Mexico's drug trade could turn the country into a narco-state"},{"date": "2009-01-22T18:02:50Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade and it is by recent tradition the day on which new presidents reverse the US's position on the Mexico City rule. That was something proclaimed by Ronald Reagan in 1984 that prohibited the use of US foreign aid dollars for abortions and family planning counseling.Bill Clinton reversed Reagan on this day in 1993. Then George W. Bush reversed Clinton on this day in 2001. It has been widely expected that Obama would reverse Dubya today.But...no news yet. And today, so far, is foreign policy day, torture day, interrogations day. It would be just like Obama not to be predicable on this, to make a liberal interest group wait a few days. I don't mind sending that particular political message, but I would certainly and strenuously mind if he doesn't reverse it fairly soon. It's a damaging policy.And lo and behold, look who agrees -- the editorial board of the right-wing Pittsburgh Tribune Review, owned by the major benefactor of right-wing causes Richard Mellon Scaife. From its editorial today:It's called the Mexico City Policy. And with a stroke of a pen, President Barack Obama can end it. He should and he must. And doing so on Thursday's 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade would be the perfect punctuation mark......The Mexico City Policy was a misguided notion of likely well-meaning people that, for all intents and purposes, promoted ignorance and probably more abortions.So, you see, Democrats and liberals aren't the only ones who oftentimes fail to understand how the Law of Unintended Consequences can play out.Rescinding the Mexico City Policy might end up being the only decent thing that President Obama does in office. And he should do it posthaste.All right, that's sort of a back-handed reason for endorsing the move, but even so, it's a surprising stand.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Obama and abortion"},{"date": "2009-03-19T15:52:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico this week became only the second American state to ban the death penalty since it was reinstated by the US supreme court in 1976, though the state's governor, signing the ban into law, said he still had grave doubts about his decision.Bill Richardson said his conscience compelled him to approve the ban, voted in by New Mexico's legislature, because the criminal justice system could never be perfect, and innocent people might be killed. \"But I am still troubled,\" he told reporters at a news conference in the state capital, Santa Fe, recounting \"the most difficult decision\" of his political life. \"I am not totally, totally convinced that every argument that I have just said to you is accurate.\"Richardson, who recently withdrew as Barack Obama's commerce secretary amid an ongoing corruption investigation, had visited the state penitentiary to inspect the execution chamber, he said, along with the cells that might hold those sentenced to life without parole. He concluded that \"those cells are something that may be worse than death. I believe this is a just punishment.\" Even so, he added, \"my decision probably is not one associated with perfection\".New Mexico has only executed one person since 1960, a man who raped and murdered a nine-year-old while on release pending appeal for raping a six-year-old. For years, the law there has only allowed judges to impose the death sentence on those found guilty of murdering children, trial witnesses, and police or prison officers. The ban, which comes into effect on 1 July, will not affect the sentences of the two men already on New Mexico's death row.In 2007, New Jersey became the first state to outlaw capital punishment since its reinstatement, though 12 states and the District of Columbia never reintroduced it after 1976 in the first place. Almost half of the 1,156 executions in the United States since the supreme court decision have taken place in Texas and Virginia.Though local law enforcement officials had opposed the ban, a local campaign in support of it enlisted former president Jimmy Carter, and the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, and deluged Richardson with letters. In a statement, the American Civil Liberties Union called the ban \"a historic step, and a clear sign that the United States continues to make significant progress toward eradicating capital punishment once and for all\".Campaigns to end the death penalty have made recent headway in Kansas and Montana, but polls suggest 60% of Americans continue to support it.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor Bill Richardson signs death penalty ban into law"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-01-30T18:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Violent deaths were as common in Mexico as in Iraq in 2008. Almost 6,000 people were shot, decapitated or otherwise \"disappeared\" and over 700 kidnapped in the escalating battle between drug traffickers. The carnage is particularly severe in border cities like Ju\u00e1rez, where the death toll has reached 1,607. On Mexico's independence day, men apparently linked to drug cartels threw a pair of grenades into a festive crowd, killing eight and maiming dozens.In its last days in office, the Bush administration came to the drastic conclusion that Mexico may soon become a failed state. The Joint Forces Command has compared Mexico to Pakistan, arguing that both may be on the verge of a \"rapid and sudden collapse\" [pdf]. General Barry McCaffrey, a former Army chief under Bush, organised a high level, semi-secret strategy meeting in December where he presented a report that claims that \"Mexico is on the edge of the abyss \u2014 it could become a narco-state in the coming decade\".Paradoxically, these grim prognostications are frequently accompanied by a blind faith in Mexico\u00b4s president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Columnists and news reports view the increase in violence as an indication of the effectiveness of the government's strategy, which has provoked gangs to fight amongst themselves and to take revenge on the government. The US Congress has supported Calder\u00f3n with its Merida Initiative of June 2008. This committed $1.4bn of military assistance to Mexico and Central America, on the theory that high-tech helicopters and listening devices can solve the problem. Both the exaggerated claims about the possible collapse of the Mexican state and the na\u00efve confidence in the Calder\u00f3n administration are mistaken. The Mexican drug cartels have no interest in taking over the government. Mexico is fundamentally different from Colombia or Afghanistan, where politics and ideology are at the centre of the agenda. Mexican drug traffickers are not terrorists or radical leftists, but savvy (and heavily armed) businessmen who corrupt government officials in order to maintain a positive \"investment climate\".The rising tide of violence is a response to the failures of the Calder\u00f3n administration. It has relied on empty public displays of force, without developing sophisticated intelligence and strategic planning against the drug cartels. Calder\u00f3n has ordered the military onto the streets. He has paraded suspected criminals before television screens. He has created an abstract national pact, which fails to include specific benchmarks or indicators of success.This grandstanding has been entirely ineffective. According to a recent independent study, only 17% of suspects arrested for drug offences were actually brought to court in 2008. Only a third of these were actually convicted. Calder\u00f3n's strategy has also led to serious human rights violations. Both Human Rights Watch and Mexico's Human Rights Ombudsman have strongly criticised the Mexican government for the systematic violation of basic civil rights.Perhaps the most important problem is the endemic corruption of Mexico's public security apparatus. A series of high level officials have been accused of receiving substantial bribes from drug traffickers. This includes the recent head of the special office for combating organised crime, and the last two chiefs of the Interpol office in Mexico. Nevertheless, no one has been convicted and most of the alleged criminals probably will walk free since the cases are based exclusively on the declarations of \"protected witnesses\" without corroboration by independent investigations.The US is also directly responsible for violence in Mexico. Drug users in the US provide the money to corrupt government officials in Mexico, while the drug cartels purchase almost all of their weapons north of the Rio Grande. The treatment of addicts and stricter gun control in the US would be an important part of the solution.If the Obama administration is serious about turning the page on its relations with Latin America, it should reassess President Bush's unthinking support of the Calder\u00f3n administration. Obama should recognise that there are many more effective allies in Mexican civil society - such as watchdog groups, journalists and scholars - and reach out to them in an effort to consolidate democracy in North America. It also wouldn't hurt to take radical measures to stem the southward flow of weapons and reduce drug consumption in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "John Ackerman: Mexico's drug trade could turn the country into a narco-state"},{"date": "2009-01-22T18:02:50Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade and it is by recent tradition the day on which new presidents reverse the US's position on the Mexico City rule. That was something proclaimed by Ronald Reagan in 1984 that prohibited the use of US foreign aid dollars for abortions and family planning counseling.Bill Clinton reversed Reagan on this day in 1993. Then George W. Bush reversed Clinton on this day in 2001. It has been widely expected that Obama would reverse Dubya today.But...no news yet. And today, so far, is foreign policy day, torture day, interrogations day. It would be just like Obama not to be predicable on this, to make a liberal interest group wait a few days. I don't mind sending that particular political message, but I would certainly and strenuously mind if he doesn't reverse it fairly soon. It's a damaging policy.And lo and behold, look who agrees -- the editorial board of the right-wing Pittsburgh Tribune Review, owned by the major benefactor of right-wing causes Richard Mellon Scaife. From its editorial today:It's called the Mexico City Policy. And with a stroke of a pen, President Barack Obama can end it. He should and he must. And doing so on Thursday's 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade would be the perfect punctuation mark......The Mexico City Policy was a misguided notion of likely well-meaning people that, for all intents and purposes, promoted ignorance and probably more abortions.So, you see, Democrats and liberals aren't the only ones who oftentimes fail to understand how the Law of Unintended Consequences can play out.Rescinding the Mexico City Policy might end up being the only decent thing that President Obama does in office. And he should do it posthaste.All right, that's sort of a back-handed reason for endorsing the move, but even so, it's a surprising stand.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Obama and abortion"},{"date": "2009-03-19T15:52:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico this week became only the second American state to ban the death penalty since it was reinstated by the US supreme court in 1976, though the state's governor, signing the ban into law, said he still had grave doubts about his decision.Bill Richardson said his conscience compelled him to approve the ban, voted in by New Mexico's legislature, because the criminal justice system could never be perfect, and innocent people might be killed. \"But I am still troubled,\" he told reporters at a news conference in the state capital, Santa Fe, recounting \"the most difficult decision\" of his political life. \"I am not totally, totally convinced that every argument that I have just said to you is accurate.\"Richardson, who recently withdrew as Barack Obama's commerce secretary amid an ongoing corruption investigation, had visited the state penitentiary to inspect the execution chamber, he said, along with the cells that might hold those sentenced to life without parole. He concluded that \"those cells are something that may be worse than death. I believe this is a just punishment.\" Even so, he added, \"my decision probably is not one associated with perfection\".New Mexico has only executed one person since 1960, a man who raped and murdered a nine-year-old while on release pending appeal for raping a six-year-old. For years, the law there has only allowed judges to impose the death sentence on those found guilty of murdering children, trial witnesses, and police or prison officers. The ban, which comes into effect on 1 July, will not affect the sentences of the two men already on New Mexico's death row.In 2007, New Jersey became the first state to outlaw capital punishment since its reinstatement, though 12 states and the District of Columbia never reintroduced it after 1976 in the first place. Almost half of the 1,156 executions in the United States since the supreme court decision have taken place in Texas and Virginia.Though local law enforcement officials had opposed the ban, a local campaign in support of it enlisted former president Jimmy Carter, and the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, and deluged Richardson with letters. In a statement, the American Civil Liberties Union called the ban \"a historic step, and a clear sign that the United States continues to make significant progress toward eradicating capital punishment once and for all\".Campaigns to end the death penalty have made recent headway in Kansas and Montana, but polls suggest 60% of Americans continue to support it.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor Bill Richardson signs death penalty ban into law"},{"date": "2009-02-25T22:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Shortly before the US elections last November, then vice-presidential candidate Joe Biden was widely criticised for predicting that an Obama administration would almost certainly be tested by what he called a \"generated\" international crisis, in much the way that the Soviet Union \"tested\" John F Kennedy shortly after he assumed office. Biden did not point to a specific region of the world, but mentioned the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent and Russia as the likeliest sources of trouble for the new president.Impolitic or not, Biden's anxieties seem to have informed several of the administration's early foreign policy decisions. These include his own extension of an olive branch to Russia at the recent Munich security conference, and Barack Obama's appointment of Richard Holbrooke as special envoy for Pakistan and Afghanistan \u2013 and of George Mitchell to a similar post for Israel-Palestine.But, as pressing as the Middle East, south Asia, and Russia (as well as Iran and North Korea) are, another crisis far closer to home could create as much peril as a nuclear-armed Iran, an aggressively resurgent Russia, or even an Islamist-dominated Pakistan.That crisis is located in Mexico, which is in free fall, its state institutions under threat as they have not been since at least the Cristero uprising of the late 1920s and possibly since the Mexican revolution of 1910. While the Obama administration is obviously aware of what is happening south of the Rio Grande, the threat simply does not command the attention that its gravity requires.The crisis consists in nothing less than an effort by the major drug cartels to tame and suborn the Mexican state, and not just in the strip along the US border, though the epicentre of the crisis is there. Obviously, the cartels' leaders do not have designs on Mexico's presidential palace. But, through a policy of terror extending from Oaxaca in the south, through Acapulco on the Pacific coast, and up to the great border cities of Tijuana and Juarez (Mexico's sixth and seventh most populous cities, respectively), they have made it abundantly clear that they are trying to achieve impunity.The only recent parallel in Latin America was a similar effort 15 years ago by the Colombian drug cartels. That disguised coup failed \u2013 barely \u2013 and there is no guarantee that the result will be similar this time around in Mexico.Journalists with long experience of war zones report being more worried about their safety in Mexico border than when they were in Bosnia, Afghanistan, or Iraq, though much of the violence is internecine. Of the thousands who have been killed, often after being horribly tortured, many, if not most, have been members of the drug cartels and their families.But it is the campaign of targeted assassination against any Mexican official who seems to pose a serious threat to the cartels' operations that makes the crisis so dire. First, in May 2007, the cartels killed Jose Nemesio Lugo Felix, the general co-ordinator of information at the national centre for planning and analysis to combat organised crime. Soon after, a hitman murdered Edgar Milan Gomez, Mexico's highest ranking federal police official.In November, 2008, a plane carrying Juan Camilo Mourino, Mexico's national security adviser, crashed under mysterious circumstances. And very recently, the retired General Mauro Enrique Tello Quinones, one of the most decorated officers in the Mexican army, was abducted, tortured, and killed less than a week after assuming a new position as anti-drug chief in the resort city of Canc\u00fan.For all the lip service paid to relations with Mexico (and, indeed, with Latin America more generally) from Franklin D Roosevelt to Obama, the truth is that developments in Mexico have always had short shrift from US presidents. Illegal immigration is a major issue, to be sure, as is the drug trade. But the US government has always regarded them as domestic American issues rather than as crucial foreign policy concerns.It is emblematic that while Obama has received Mexican President Felipe Calder\u00f3n, the White House only recently announced that one of his first foreign trips would be to Mexico. And incoming secretary of state Hillary Clinton was asked almost nothing about Mexico at her confirmation hearing, and she emphasised relations with Mexico neither in her own statement nor in those she has made since assuming her post.Indeed, the conventional wisdom in the US is that Mexico policy regarding illegal immigration and drugs will be the province of the new homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano (herself a former border state governor). Meanwhile, the treasury and commerce departments will be handle trade policy concerning Nafta, the North American Free Trade Agreement.This is the way Mexico policy has been run for decades. And, offensive as this has been to Mexican sensibilities \u2013 and harmful to finding long-term solutions to America's immigration dilemma \u2013 these complacent arrangements have never presented so clear and present danger as they do today.Copyright: Project Syndicate, 2009", "tags": ["World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "US domestic policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "David Rieff: Drugs cartels have brought Mexico to its knees"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The tiny village of Yelapa is the only vestige of civilisation for miles around, and it's a world away from the tourist bustle of the inexplicably popular Puerto Vallarta. This is Verana on the Pacific Coast of Mexico, a hotel that has somehow gone under the radar but whose anti-ostentation ethos feels so right now. Along Jalisco's Costa Alegre, you only have to venture a few steps from the beaten path to stumble upon sleepy fishing hamlets and unspoilt beaches. Verana's not the easiest place to get to, though: this all-huts hideaway can only be reached by a 20-minute boat trip followed by a mule ride through the jungle (and a couple of celebratory margaritas in our case).But once you're stretched out in your cotton-draped king-size, looking out across jungle and ocean, you'll be glad you made the effort to get here. Verana's European owners are Hollywood set designers, so the architecture is dramatic and pared-back, and the decor epitomises easy-going living. The cluster of thatched bungalow huts has a Bauhaus-meets-boho sensibility: bright Mexican colours and textiles pop against polished concrete; and the pool is surrounded by stepped terraces lined with orange loungers and parasols. One terrace wall has even become an unofficial guestbook, scratched with assorted declarations of love - it's that kind of place: the perfect antidote to urban anonymity and chain hotels. Nature rules this roost: frangipani blooms across the hillside, bougainvillea trails in and around bedrooms and window frames, and birdsong rouses you from afternoon naps. Some of the villas have full-length windows looking out over the sea; some don't bother with walls at all, so you can get the full David Attenborough experience without getting out of bed. Lo-fi and sustainable at heart, Verana eschews all carbon-hungry electronic goods - candles are used where possible, and food is sourced locally (as were all building materials). Private beaches secluded by rocky outcrops, inspired architecture, a jungle spa, and salsa-packed fresh-Mex food ... This place is a modern-day Eden. \u2022 Verana, Jalisco. Doubles cost from \u00a3195 per night (www.mrandmrssmith.com; 0845 034 0700)", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Green travel"], "title": "James Lohan explores Verana in Mexico"},{"date": "2009-01-30T18:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Violent deaths were as common in Mexico as in Iraq in 2008. Almost 6,000 people were shot, decapitated or otherwise \"disappeared\" and over 700 kidnapped in the escalating battle between drug traffickers. The carnage is particularly severe in border cities like Ju\u00e1rez, where the death toll has reached 1,607. On Mexico's independence day, men apparently linked to drug cartels threw a pair of grenades into a festive crowd, killing eight and maiming dozens.In its last days in office, the Bush administration came to the drastic conclusion that Mexico may soon become a failed state. The Joint Forces Command has compared Mexico to Pakistan, arguing that both may be on the verge of a \"rapid and sudden collapse\" [pdf]. General Barry McCaffrey, a former Army chief under Bush, organised a high level, semi-secret strategy meeting in December where he presented a report that claims that \"Mexico is on the edge of the abyss \u2014 it could become a narco-state in the coming decade\".Paradoxically, these grim prognostications are frequently accompanied by a blind faith in Mexico\u00b4s president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Columnists and news reports view the increase in violence as an indication of the effectiveness of the government's strategy, which has provoked gangs to fight amongst themselves and to take revenge on the government. The US Congress has supported Calder\u00f3n with its Merida Initiative of June 2008. This committed $1.4bn of military assistance to Mexico and Central America, on the theory that high-tech helicopters and listening devices can solve the problem. Both the exaggerated claims about the possible collapse of the Mexican state and the na\u00efve confidence in the Calder\u00f3n administration are mistaken. The Mexican drug cartels have no interest in taking over the government. Mexico is fundamentally different from Colombia or Afghanistan, where politics and ideology are at the centre of the agenda. Mexican drug traffickers are not terrorists or radical leftists, but savvy (and heavily armed) businessmen who corrupt government officials in order to maintain a positive \"investment climate\".The rising tide of violence is a response to the failures of the Calder\u00f3n administration. It has relied on empty public displays of force, without developing sophisticated intelligence and strategic planning against the drug cartels. Calder\u00f3n has ordered the military onto the streets. He has paraded suspected criminals before television screens. He has created an abstract national pact, which fails to include specific benchmarks or indicators of success.This grandstanding has been entirely ineffective. According to a recent independent study, only 17% of suspects arrested for drug offences were actually brought to court in 2008. Only a third of these were actually convicted. Calder\u00f3n's strategy has also led to serious human rights violations. Both Human Rights Watch and Mexico's Human Rights Ombudsman have strongly criticised the Mexican government for the systematic violation of basic civil rights.Perhaps the most important problem is the endemic corruption of Mexico's public security apparatus. A series of high level officials have been accused of receiving substantial bribes from drug traffickers. This includes the recent head of the special office for combating organised crime, and the last two chiefs of the Interpol office in Mexico. Nevertheless, no one has been convicted and most of the alleged criminals probably will walk free since the cases are based exclusively on the declarations of \"protected witnesses\" without corroboration by independent investigations.The US is also directly responsible for violence in Mexico. Drug users in the US provide the money to corrupt government officials in Mexico, while the drug cartels purchase almost all of their weapons north of the Rio Grande. The treatment of addicts and stricter gun control in the US would be an important part of the solution.If the Obama administration is serious about turning the page on its relations with Latin America, it should reassess President Bush's unthinking support of the Calder\u00f3n administration. Obama should recognise that there are many more effective allies in Mexican civil society - such as watchdog groups, journalists and scholars - and reach out to them in an effort to consolidate democracy in North America. It also wouldn't hurt to take radical measures to stem the southward flow of weapons and reduce drug consumption in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "John Ackerman: Mexico's drug trade could turn the country into a narco-state"},{"date": "2009-01-22T18:02:50Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is the 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade and it is by recent tradition the day on which new presidents reverse the US's position on the Mexico City rule. That was something proclaimed by Ronald Reagan in 1984 that prohibited the use of US foreign aid dollars for abortions and family planning counseling.Bill Clinton reversed Reagan on this day in 1993. Then George W. Bush reversed Clinton on this day in 2001. It has been widely expected that Obama would reverse Dubya today.But...no news yet. And today, so far, is foreign policy day, torture day, interrogations day. It would be just like Obama not to be predicable on this, to make a liberal interest group wait a few days. I don't mind sending that particular political message, but I would certainly and strenuously mind if he doesn't reverse it fairly soon. It's a damaging policy.And lo and behold, look who agrees -- the editorial board of the right-wing Pittsburgh Tribune Review, owned by the major benefactor of right-wing causes Richard Mellon Scaife. From its editorial today:It's called the Mexico City Policy. And with a stroke of a pen, President Barack Obama can end it. He should and he must. And doing so on Thursday's 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade would be the perfect punctuation mark......The Mexico City Policy was a misguided notion of likely well-meaning people that, for all intents and purposes, promoted ignorance and probably more abortions.So, you see, Democrats and liberals aren't the only ones who oftentimes fail to understand how the Law of Unintended Consequences can play out.Rescinding the Mexico City Policy might end up being the only decent thing that President Obama does in office. And he should do it posthaste.All right, that's sort of a back-handed reason for endorsing the move, but even so, it's a surprising stand.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Obama and abortion"},{"date": "2009-03-19T15:52:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico this week became only the second American state to ban the death penalty since it was reinstated by the US supreme court in 1976, though the state's governor, signing the ban into law, said he still had grave doubts about his decision.Bill Richardson said his conscience compelled him to approve the ban, voted in by New Mexico's legislature, because the criminal justice system could never be perfect, and innocent people might be killed. \"But I am still troubled,\" he told reporters at a news conference in the state capital, Santa Fe, recounting \"the most difficult decision\" of his political life. \"I am not totally, totally convinced that every argument that I have just said to you is accurate.\"Richardson, who recently withdrew as Barack Obama's commerce secretary amid an ongoing corruption investigation, had visited the state penitentiary to inspect the execution chamber, he said, along with the cells that might hold those sentenced to life without parole. He concluded that \"those cells are something that may be worse than death. I believe this is a just punishment.\" Even so, he added, \"my decision probably is not one associated with perfection\".New Mexico has only executed one person since 1960, a man who raped and murdered a nine-year-old while on release pending appeal for raping a six-year-old. For years, the law there has only allowed judges to impose the death sentence on those found guilty of murdering children, trial witnesses, and police or prison officers. The ban, which comes into effect on 1 July, will not affect the sentences of the two men already on New Mexico's death row.In 2007, New Jersey became the first state to outlaw capital punishment since its reinstatement, though 12 states and the District of Columbia never reintroduced it after 1976 in the first place. Almost half of the 1,156 executions in the United States since the supreme court decision have taken place in Texas and Virginia.Though local law enforcement officials had opposed the ban, a local campaign in support of it enlisted former president Jimmy Carter, and the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, and deluged Richardson with letters. In a statement, the American Civil Liberties Union called the ban \"a historic step, and a clear sign that the United States continues to make significant progress toward eradicating capital punishment once and for all\".Campaigns to end the death penalty have made recent headway in Kansas and Montana, but polls suggest 60% of Americans continue to support it.", "tags": ["Capital punishment", "US news", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "New Mexico governor Bill Richardson signs death penalty ban into law"},{"date": "2009-02-25T22:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Shortly before the US elections last November, then vice-presidential candidate Joe Biden was widely criticised for predicting that an Obama administration would almost certainly be tested by what he called a \"generated\" international crisis, in much the way that the Soviet Union \"tested\" John F Kennedy shortly after he assumed office. Biden did not point to a specific region of the world, but mentioned the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent and Russia as the likeliest sources of trouble for the new president.Impolitic or not, Biden's anxieties seem to have informed several of the administration's early foreign policy decisions. These include his own extension of an olive branch to Russia at the recent Munich security conference, and Barack Obama's appointment of Richard Holbrooke as special envoy for Pakistan and Afghanistan \u2013 and of George Mitchell to a similar post for Israel-Palestine.But, as pressing as the Middle East, south Asia, and Russia (as well as Iran and North Korea) are, another crisis far closer to home could create as much peril as a nuclear-armed Iran, an aggressively resurgent Russia, or even an Islamist-dominated Pakistan.That crisis is located in Mexico, which is in free fall, its state institutions under threat as they have not been since at least the Cristero uprising of the late 1920s and possibly since the Mexican revolution of 1910. While the Obama administration is obviously aware of what is happening south of the Rio Grande, the threat simply does not command the attention that its gravity requires.The crisis consists in nothing less than an effort by the major drug cartels to tame and suborn the Mexican state, and not just in the strip along the US border, though the epicentre of the crisis is there. Obviously, the cartels' leaders do not have designs on Mexico's presidential palace. But, through a policy of terror extending from Oaxaca in the south, through Acapulco on the Pacific coast, and up to the great border cities of Tijuana and Juarez (Mexico's sixth and seventh most populous cities, respectively), they have made it abundantly clear that they are trying to achieve impunity.The only recent parallel in Latin America was a similar effort 15 years ago by the Colombian drug cartels. That disguised coup failed \u2013 barely \u2013 and there is no guarantee that the result will be similar this time around in Mexico.Journalists with long experience of war zones report being more worried about their safety in Mexico border than when they were in Bosnia, Afghanistan, or Iraq, though much of the violence is internecine. Of the thousands who have been killed, often after being horribly tortured, many, if not most, have been members of the drug cartels and their families.But it is the campaign of targeted assassination against any Mexican official who seems to pose a serious threat to the cartels' operations that makes the crisis so dire. First, in May 2007, the cartels killed Jose Nemesio Lugo Felix, the general co-ordinator of information at the national centre for planning and analysis to combat organised crime. Soon after, a hitman murdered Edgar Milan Gomez, Mexico's highest ranking federal police official.In November, 2008, a plane carrying Juan Camilo Mourino, Mexico's national security adviser, crashed under mysterious circumstances. And very recently, the retired General Mauro Enrique Tello Quinones, one of the most decorated officers in the Mexican army, was abducted, tortured, and killed less than a week after assuming a new position as anti-drug chief in the resort city of Canc\u00fan.For all the lip service paid to relations with Mexico (and, indeed, with Latin America more generally) from Franklin D Roosevelt to Obama, the truth is that developments in Mexico have always had short shrift from US presidents. Illegal immigration is a major issue, to be sure, as is the drug trade. But the US government has always regarded them as domestic American issues rather than as crucial foreign policy concerns.It is emblematic that while Obama has received Mexican President Felipe Calder\u00f3n, the White House only recently announced that one of his first foreign trips would be to Mexico. And incoming secretary of state Hillary Clinton was asked almost nothing about Mexico at her confirmation hearing, and she emphasised relations with Mexico neither in her own statement nor in those she has made since assuming her post.Indeed, the conventional wisdom in the US is that Mexico policy regarding illegal immigration and drugs will be the province of the new homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano (herself a former border state governor). Meanwhile, the treasury and commerce departments will be handle trade policy concerning Nafta, the North American Free Trade Agreement.This is the way Mexico policy has been run for decades. And, offensive as this has been to Mexican sensibilities \u2013 and harmful to finding long-term solutions to America's immigration dilemma \u2013 these complacent arrangements have never presented so clear and present danger as they do today.Copyright: Project Syndicate, 2009", "tags": ["World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "US domestic policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "David Rieff: Drugs cartels have brought Mexico to its knees"},{"date": "2009-02-27T21:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "How bad is drug-related violence in Mexico? Here's an idea: The war in Iraq has cost the lives of some 4,600 soldiers since 2003. In Mexico, there were 5,400 drug-related deaths in 2008 alone. We're talking of a supposedly stable nation, with no foreign or civil wars, which has more violent deaths due to an \"underground\" conflict than the war in Iraq has caused.Public safety is one of Mexico's top problems. Narcotics-related or not, violence, which long ago was something unheard of, has been permeating all layers of Mexican society. Whereas in other countries murders make the news, they don't in Mexico, unless it's a high-ranking government officer, public personality or drug-related mass execution.We've become galvanised toward violence. We take it for granted. Far from being a distant concern one might read about in the newspapers, one would have a hard time finding any Mexican who hasn't been a victim of violence. Indeed, most people are grateful to have lived through their personal ordeals, rather than angry at the violation of one of man's most basic rights: the right to safety.Drug-related violence has escalated to a point of total war, particularly in northwestern Mexico. Coincidentally, these are the states bordering the US, and as such, control of these territories will grant (or deny) access to the world's largest market for narcotics. The fact that coverage of these events doesn't reach much farther than the US, which is understandably concerned about the situation, might be owed to Mexico's reputation abroad as a wonderful vacation paradise with low prices and warm beaches.Tourism is one of Mexico's largest industries (behind oil and money transfers from nationals working abroad), so the government wanting to keep a lid on the true nature of the problem is understandable. However, the current government has proven its ineptitude at a variety of levels, and news of Mexico's plight is starting to be heard overseas. Other than the rampant violence, there's one thing very clear: the government can't stop this problem.The Mexican government has been touted as \"illegitimate\", due to the shady circumstances under which president Calder\u00f3n was elected in 2006, and marred by a weak, inexperienced cabinet and a president without any real vision as to where the country should go. Their efforts to reassure people that they know what they're doing, mainly through expensive publicity bombardment, have had little effect. Calder\u00f3n promised better public safety, and so far his strategy to achieve this has been to attack, head-on, the drug cartels.This strategy has backfired horribly, and with two drug cartels (Cartel del Pac\u00edfico and Cartel del Golfo) engaging in firefights between themselves and the military, the de facto war in the northern states is slowly spilling to the rest of the country, with drug-related violence reaching as far as Guerrero (eight soldiers found beheaded near Acapulco last December, showing the drug cartels have no fear or respect for the military), Mexico City (where bodies routinely appear in the mountains surrounding the capital) and Yucat\u00e1n (where a general was murdered in Canc\u00fan in early February). For the one factor the government has failed to understand is that as long as there are such fabulous amounts of money to be earned, and as long as the Mexican legal system is so deficient and run by corruptible officers, the drug cartels will continue to fight to their last man.The government's failure to control Mexico's two main problems, a rapidly tanking economy and public safety, are likely to cost the ruling party (PAN) the power it won in 2000, come the next presidential elections in 2012. However, many Mexicans feel that waiting until then to see if things change will be a disaster. Social unrest is mounting, and while the mid-term elections in July 2009 might provide some hope by renewing about half of Congress and the Senate, the president and cabinet still man the helm \u2013 and they need to rethink their strategy, for many analysts are already predicting uprisings and violent toppling of the government.I think it all boils down to safety. The drug business promises enormous profits, but it is a dangerous occupation. And right now most Mexicans live in danger. Our safety is not at all certain. Sound economic policies will provide jobs and growth (sorry, but stability, unlike what the government tells us, will not suffice when our economy has not grown significantly in the last 30 years) and reduce the amount of people who devote themselves to a life of crime. Trustworthy police and military will further deter criminal behaviour.Once this is achieved, the number of people willing to live a life of violence and risk working for a drug cartel will probably diminish. A safer, quieter climate will also foster more economic growth and the kind of foreign investment the government is so proud to show off in economic reports. Only they fail to mention that a lot of that investment is leaving in droves due to the climate of insecurity and violence.Simplistic as this approach may seem, the government seems loath to get involved in economics, preferring a \"to the death\" neoliberal approach and choosing to attack other problems separately (security is chief among them) in hopes of providing a \"benign economic climate\" for companies to freely thrive. But it is naive to think that the government should not jump-start the economy, as perhaps companies share one trait with drug cartels: They're in it for their own benefit and profit.Mexicans hope that the government is right when it says, both here and abroad (to reassure foreign powers), that the \"drug cartels' actions are the product of desperation\", that nine out of every 10 deaths in the drug wars are on the cartels' side, and that \"we're winning the war\". However, we have learned to distrust our government, so we know the reality is quite different from what they tell us. Sadly, we've come to know because, more than ever, the violence is real and on the streets every day.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Daniel Manrique: Calder\u00f3n's government can't stop Mexico's drug violence"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-04-21T20:30:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "While visions of taxes and tea parties danced in the heads of most Americans last week, preparations were being made south of the border to welcome President Barack Obama, who stopped over in Mexico City for less than a day before heading off to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago \u2013 just long enough to give Mexico bragging rights as the first country in the hemisphere to welcome him.An official state visit from the world's most popular and powerful leader, no less. A historic opportunity. Given the current panorama and dire nature of bilateral issues \u2013 immigration, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, Nafta enforcement \u2013 local expectations ran high. As the front page of tabloid La Prensa put it: \"Our future hangs in the balance!\"US secretary of state Hillary Clinton had already set the stage back in March, and Obama's arrival was timed to coincide with Alan Bersin's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu appointment as the new border tsar. For days, the press bubbled with an anticipation unparalleled since Kennedy's visit in 1962. Analysing Mexican media coverage of Obama's visit takes longer than the visit itself did. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n rolled out the bulletproof red carpet to welcome the world's most powerful political leader: 4,500 local and federal agents. A military salute. Choirs of fresh-faced children. A cordoned route along a one-mile stretch of Reforma Boulevard that led from the helicopter pad at Campo Marte to the press conference at the presidential residence, Los Pinos, over to the gala dinner at the Museum of Anthropology, then back to his suite at the aptly named Hotel Presidente. Transportation was furnished by The Beast, a limousine outfitted with shotguns and tear gas, a chassis reinforced with a five-inch steel plate to withstand any blasts, kevlar-coated tires, wi-fi and direct satellite communications with the Pentagon and vice-president to tide him over during those 10-minute car rides and (my personal favourite) a trunk equipped with bottles of the president's blood in case of emergency. Fortunately, no transfusions were necessary.So after all the build-up, what was in the news the next day? Obama admitted, as his secretary of state had before him, shared responsibility for the ongoing cartel-related violence in northern Mexico. Calder\u00f3n obligingly offered several strategies to contain the flow of semi-automatic weapons into Mexico \u2013 where gun-control legislation is far more stringent \u2013 without challenging the constitutional right to bear arms in the US.Other than that, there were only a few tidbits scattered among the overwhelming consensus that Nothing Happened.During a gala dinner graced by the presence of the world's richest man, Carlos Slim Hel\u00fa, Obama was approached by teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo, a rather polemic figure who helped swing the presidential elections in 2006. Clinging to his arm, she pointed out Calder\u00f3n and assured Obama that he's a \"good man\".But look who didn't come to dinner: members of Congress representing the leftwing Labour, Alternative and Social Convergence parties had first been invited, then crassly uninvited, triggering a boycott of the event by all Representatives who weren't members of the National Action Party (PAN). This, together with the removal of anything or anyone falling within the perimeter of Obama's mini-Mexico City, meant there was no chance he would come into contact with any form of opposition to Calder\u00f3n's policies (otherwise known as democracy).In order for the United States and Mexico to achieve a significant change in their relationship, one that will reflect a changing reality, lip service regarding joint efforts must be complemented with a crash course in Mexican society, culture and history. You cannot help those whom you do not understand.And the need for greater awareness is pressing, given that our understanding in the US of, for example, Cuba is far more developed than our understanding of Mexico. This despite the fact that the island's importance is largely symbolic at this point, whereas Mexico's role in the future of the US is vital.He came, he saw ... he left. Unfortunately, the current Mexican administration made sure that Obama's visit would provide him with only an extremely limited bird's-eye view.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Tanya Huntington Hyde: Obama's Mexico trip gave him a very limited view of the country"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-04-21T20:30:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "While visions of taxes and tea parties danced in the heads of most Americans last week, preparations were being made south of the border to welcome President Barack Obama, who stopped over in Mexico City for less than a day before heading off to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago \u2013 just long enough to give Mexico bragging rights as the first country in the hemisphere to welcome him.An official state visit from the world's most popular and powerful leader, no less. A historic opportunity. Given the current panorama and dire nature of bilateral issues \u2013 immigration, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, Nafta enforcement \u2013 local expectations ran high. As the front page of tabloid La Prensa put it: \"Our future hangs in the balance!\"US secretary of state Hillary Clinton had already set the stage back in March, and Obama's arrival was timed to coincide with Alan Bersin's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu appointment as the new border tsar. For days, the press bubbled with an anticipation unparalleled since Kennedy's visit in 1962. Analysing Mexican media coverage of Obama's visit takes longer than the visit itself did. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n rolled out the bulletproof red carpet to welcome the world's most powerful political leader: 4,500 local and federal agents. A military salute. Choirs of fresh-faced children. A cordoned route along a one-mile stretch of Reforma Boulevard that led from the helicopter pad at Campo Marte to the press conference at the presidential residence, Los Pinos, over to the gala dinner at the Museum of Anthropology, then back to his suite at the aptly named Hotel Presidente. Transportation was furnished by The Beast, a limousine outfitted with shotguns and tear gas, a chassis reinforced with a five-inch steel plate to withstand any blasts, kevlar-coated tires, wi-fi and direct satellite communications with the Pentagon and vice-president to tide him over during those 10-minute car rides and (my personal favourite) a trunk equipped with bottles of the president's blood in case of emergency. Fortunately, no transfusions were necessary.So after all the build-up, what was in the news the next day? Obama admitted, as his secretary of state had before him, shared responsibility for the ongoing cartel-related violence in northern Mexico. Calder\u00f3n obligingly offered several strategies to contain the flow of semi-automatic weapons into Mexico \u2013 where gun-control legislation is far more stringent \u2013 without challenging the constitutional right to bear arms in the US.Other than that, there were only a few tidbits scattered among the overwhelming consensus that Nothing Happened.During a gala dinner graced by the presence of the world's richest man, Carlos Slim Hel\u00fa, Obama was approached by teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo, a rather polemic figure who helped swing the presidential elections in 2006. Clinging to his arm, she pointed out Calder\u00f3n and assured Obama that he's a \"good man\".But look who didn't come to dinner: members of Congress representing the leftwing Labour, Alternative and Social Convergence parties had first been invited, then crassly uninvited, triggering a boycott of the event by all Representatives who weren't members of the National Action Party (PAN). This, together with the removal of anything or anyone falling within the perimeter of Obama's mini-Mexico City, meant there was no chance he would come into contact with any form of opposition to Calder\u00f3n's policies (otherwise known as democracy).In order for the United States and Mexico to achieve a significant change in their relationship, one that will reflect a changing reality, lip service regarding joint efforts must be complemented with a crash course in Mexican society, culture and history. You cannot help those whom you do not understand.And the need for greater awareness is pressing, given that our understanding in the US of, for example, Cuba is far more developed than our understanding of Mexico. This despite the fact that the island's importance is largely symbolic at this point, whereas Mexico's role in the future of the US is vital.He came, he saw ... he left. Unfortunately, the current Mexican administration made sure that Obama's visit would provide him with only an extremely limited bird's-eye view.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Tanya Huntington Hyde: Obama's Mexico trip gave him a very limited view of the country"},{"date": "2009-05-15T17:36:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Foreign and Commonwealth Office this evening lifted its advisory against all but essential travel to Mexico, meaning that tour operators can resume outbound holidays to the country.The FCO said: \"Following a decline in the number of reported new swine influenza cases in Mexico since its peak on 26 April, we no longer advise against all but essential travel.\" It adds that \"British Nationals should continue to follow local advice on precautions to take to avoid exposure to the influenza\".Manuel Diaz Cebrian, from the Mexican Tourism Board in London, said: \"This is like seeing light at the end of the tunnel and we are very happy. It means tour operators will go ahead with their flights and people will start considering Mexico again as a destination. It's the first step to the recovery of the perception of Mexico. But it's going to take almost a year to recover fully.\"He added that Mexico will bring forward a TV, print and radio promotional campaign it had planned for June to the end of May.Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all outbound holidays to the beach resorts of Canc\u00fan and Cozumel until 22 May, but said: \"In light of this updated advice, we are planning to begin operations to Mexico once again in the very near future, although we are not in a position to advise of an exact date at this time.\"The tour operators said that before they resume flights, they will need to have confirmation of when hotels will be re-opening, as many were closed due to lack of guests, and will need to make \"resort standard set-up checks\".Thomas Cook, which also flies to Canc\u00fan, said it will resume flights on May 23.", "tags": ["Travel", "Mexico holidays", "Swine flu"], "title": "Foreign Office lifts Mexico ban"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-04-21T20:30:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "While visions of taxes and tea parties danced in the heads of most Americans last week, preparations were being made south of the border to welcome President Barack Obama, who stopped over in Mexico City for less than a day before heading off to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago \u2013 just long enough to give Mexico bragging rights as the first country in the hemisphere to welcome him.An official state visit from the world's most popular and powerful leader, no less. A historic opportunity. Given the current panorama and dire nature of bilateral issues \u2013 immigration, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, Nafta enforcement \u2013 local expectations ran high. As the front page of tabloid La Prensa put it: \"Our future hangs in the balance!\"US secretary of state Hillary Clinton had already set the stage back in March, and Obama's arrival was timed to coincide with Alan Bersin's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu appointment as the new border tsar. For days, the press bubbled with an anticipation unparalleled since Kennedy's visit in 1962. Analysing Mexican media coverage of Obama's visit takes longer than the visit itself did. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n rolled out the bulletproof red carpet to welcome the world's most powerful political leader: 4,500 local and federal agents. A military salute. Choirs of fresh-faced children. A cordoned route along a one-mile stretch of Reforma Boulevard that led from the helicopter pad at Campo Marte to the press conference at the presidential residence, Los Pinos, over to the gala dinner at the Museum of Anthropology, then back to his suite at the aptly named Hotel Presidente. Transportation was furnished by The Beast, a limousine outfitted with shotguns and tear gas, a chassis reinforced with a five-inch steel plate to withstand any blasts, kevlar-coated tires, wi-fi and direct satellite communications with the Pentagon and vice-president to tide him over during those 10-minute car rides and (my personal favourite) a trunk equipped with bottles of the president's blood in case of emergency. Fortunately, no transfusions were necessary.So after all the build-up, what was in the news the next day? Obama admitted, as his secretary of state had before him, shared responsibility for the ongoing cartel-related violence in northern Mexico. Calder\u00f3n obligingly offered several strategies to contain the flow of semi-automatic weapons into Mexico \u2013 where gun-control legislation is far more stringent \u2013 without challenging the constitutional right to bear arms in the US.Other than that, there were only a few tidbits scattered among the overwhelming consensus that Nothing Happened.During a gala dinner graced by the presence of the world's richest man, Carlos Slim Hel\u00fa, Obama was approached by teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo, a rather polemic figure who helped swing the presidential elections in 2006. Clinging to his arm, she pointed out Calder\u00f3n and assured Obama that he's a \"good man\".But look who didn't come to dinner: members of Congress representing the leftwing Labour, Alternative and Social Convergence parties had first been invited, then crassly uninvited, triggering a boycott of the event by all Representatives who weren't members of the National Action Party (PAN). This, together with the removal of anything or anyone falling within the perimeter of Obama's mini-Mexico City, meant there was no chance he would come into contact with any form of opposition to Calder\u00f3n's policies (otherwise known as democracy).In order for the United States and Mexico to achieve a significant change in their relationship, one that will reflect a changing reality, lip service regarding joint efforts must be complemented with a crash course in Mexican society, culture and history. You cannot help those whom you do not understand.And the need for greater awareness is pressing, given that our understanding in the US of, for example, Cuba is far more developed than our understanding of Mexico. This despite the fact that the island's importance is largely symbolic at this point, whereas Mexico's role in the future of the US is vital.He came, he saw ... he left. Unfortunately, the current Mexican administration made sure that Obama's visit would provide him with only an extremely limited bird's-eye view.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Tanya Huntington Hyde: Obama's Mexico trip gave him a very limited view of the country"},{"date": "2009-05-15T17:36:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Foreign and Commonwealth Office this evening lifted its advisory against all but essential travel to Mexico, meaning that tour operators can resume outbound holidays to the country.The FCO said: \"Following a decline in the number of reported new swine influenza cases in Mexico since its peak on 26 April, we no longer advise against all but essential travel.\" It adds that \"British Nationals should continue to follow local advice on precautions to take to avoid exposure to the influenza\".Manuel Diaz Cebrian, from the Mexican Tourism Board in London, said: \"This is like seeing light at the end of the tunnel and we are very happy. It means tour operators will go ahead with their flights and people will start considering Mexico again as a destination. It's the first step to the recovery of the perception of Mexico. But it's going to take almost a year to recover fully.\"He added that Mexico will bring forward a TV, print and radio promotional campaign it had planned for June to the end of May.Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all outbound holidays to the beach resorts of Canc\u00fan and Cozumel until 22 May, but said: \"In light of this updated advice, we are planning to begin operations to Mexico once again in the very near future, although we are not in a position to advise of an exact date at this time.\"The tour operators said that before they resume flights, they will need to have confirmation of when hotels will be re-opening, as many were closed due to lack of guests, and will need to make \"resort standard set-up checks\".Thomas Cook, which also flies to Canc\u00fan, said it will resume flights on May 23.", "tags": ["Travel", "Mexico holidays", "Swine flu"], "title": "Foreign Office lifts Mexico ban"},{"date": "2009-05-22T09:35:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City lowered its swine flu alert level from yellow to green late last night as the mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, claimed residents could \"relax\" as there had been no new infections for a week.Ebrard said the change meant the risk of contagion was low, the situation was under control and the images of countless people wearing blue surgical masks around the city could be consigned to history.There's no longer any need to wear masks, Ebrard said, adding: \"Now you can come to the city without any risk.\"With fears of an immediate global pandemic fading, Japan, where there have been almost 300 swine flu cases, also relaxed rules amid fears that the strict regulations could harm the economy and put needless restrictions on the public.\"It is important to make it possible for the local government to respond flexibly, depending on the situation of the region,\" the prime minister, Taro Aso, said.Under the new guidelines, suspected patients in areas where the number of cases are rapidly increasing would be allowed to go to regular medical clinics rather than only designated \"fever centres\" set up to deal with swine flu, the health minister, Yoichi Masuzoe, said.The World Health Organisation today said that 42 countries had recorded 11,168 cases of swine flu, including 86 deaths, since the outbreak was first noticed in Mexico last month.In Italy, two secondary schools in Rome have been ordered to close for a week after four students caught the H1N1 flu virus on a trip to New York.In Mexico, where 75 swine flu deaths have occurred, the health authorities said no one had been taken to hospital with respiratory infections in the past three days. There have been no confirmed swine flu cases since May 14.\"We are seeing a 96% drop in cases and that's why we are dropping the alert level to green today,\" the Mexico City health secretary, Armando Ahued, said.Since the outbreak was declared on 23 April, Mexico City has spent 4.5bn pesos (\u00a3217m) on medicine and antibacterial gel and to provide incentives for businesses to shut their doors and to clean public spaces.A total of 4,008 people have been infected in Mexico. The country's confirmed toll has been rising as scientists test a backlog of samples from patients.Ebrard urged Mexicans to remain vigilant, to maintain sanitary conditions in places where crowds gather such as the metro system and schools, and to support a \"culture of health\".\"The big lesson is that we understand what the scientists have been saying for a decade: that we have to be prepared for any possible virus that can appear,\" the mayor said.Nearly 80% of those who died were between 20 and 54, according to the health department. However, many suffered from underlying medical conditions. Almost 30% were obese or had other metabolical problems, and 13% had \u00adcardiovascular problems.New test results from the US Centres of Disease Control show that people in their 60s and older have signs of greater immunity to the new swine flu virus.Scientists think that is because older people have been exposed to other viruses that are more similar to swine flu than more recent seasonal flu.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "Japan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Mexico City lowers swine flu alert"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-04-21T20:30:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "While visions of taxes and tea parties danced in the heads of most Americans last week, preparations were being made south of the border to welcome President Barack Obama, who stopped over in Mexico City for less than a day before heading off to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago \u2013 just long enough to give Mexico bragging rights as the first country in the hemisphere to welcome him.An official state visit from the world's most popular and powerful leader, no less. A historic opportunity. Given the current panorama and dire nature of bilateral issues \u2013 immigration, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, Nafta enforcement \u2013 local expectations ran high. As the front page of tabloid La Prensa put it: \"Our future hangs in the balance!\"US secretary of state Hillary Clinton had already set the stage back in March, and Obama's arrival was timed to coincide with Alan Bersin's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu appointment as the new border tsar. For days, the press bubbled with an anticipation unparalleled since Kennedy's visit in 1962. Analysing Mexican media coverage of Obama's visit takes longer than the visit itself did. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n rolled out the bulletproof red carpet to welcome the world's most powerful political leader: 4,500 local and federal agents. A military salute. Choirs of fresh-faced children. A cordoned route along a one-mile stretch of Reforma Boulevard that led from the helicopter pad at Campo Marte to the press conference at the presidential residence, Los Pinos, over to the gala dinner at the Museum of Anthropology, then back to his suite at the aptly named Hotel Presidente. Transportation was furnished by The Beast, a limousine outfitted with shotguns and tear gas, a chassis reinforced with a five-inch steel plate to withstand any blasts, kevlar-coated tires, wi-fi and direct satellite communications with the Pentagon and vice-president to tide him over during those 10-minute car rides and (my personal favourite) a trunk equipped with bottles of the president's blood in case of emergency. Fortunately, no transfusions were necessary.So after all the build-up, what was in the news the next day? Obama admitted, as his secretary of state had before him, shared responsibility for the ongoing cartel-related violence in northern Mexico. Calder\u00f3n obligingly offered several strategies to contain the flow of semi-automatic weapons into Mexico \u2013 where gun-control legislation is far more stringent \u2013 without challenging the constitutional right to bear arms in the US.Other than that, there were only a few tidbits scattered among the overwhelming consensus that Nothing Happened.During a gala dinner graced by the presence of the world's richest man, Carlos Slim Hel\u00fa, Obama was approached by teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo, a rather polemic figure who helped swing the presidential elections in 2006. Clinging to his arm, she pointed out Calder\u00f3n and assured Obama that he's a \"good man\".But look who didn't come to dinner: members of Congress representing the leftwing Labour, Alternative and Social Convergence parties had first been invited, then crassly uninvited, triggering a boycott of the event by all Representatives who weren't members of the National Action Party (PAN). This, together with the removal of anything or anyone falling within the perimeter of Obama's mini-Mexico City, meant there was no chance he would come into contact with any form of opposition to Calder\u00f3n's policies (otherwise known as democracy).In order for the United States and Mexico to achieve a significant change in their relationship, one that will reflect a changing reality, lip service regarding joint efforts must be complemented with a crash course in Mexican society, culture and history. You cannot help those whom you do not understand.And the need for greater awareness is pressing, given that our understanding in the US of, for example, Cuba is far more developed than our understanding of Mexico. This despite the fact that the island's importance is largely symbolic at this point, whereas Mexico's role in the future of the US is vital.He came, he saw ... he left. Unfortunately, the current Mexican administration made sure that Obama's visit would provide him with only an extremely limited bird's-eye view.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Tanya Huntington Hyde: Obama's Mexico trip gave him a very limited view of the country"},{"date": "2009-05-15T17:36:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Foreign and Commonwealth Office this evening lifted its advisory against all but essential travel to Mexico, meaning that tour operators can resume outbound holidays to the country.The FCO said: \"Following a decline in the number of reported new swine influenza cases in Mexico since its peak on 26 April, we no longer advise against all but essential travel.\" It adds that \"British Nationals should continue to follow local advice on precautions to take to avoid exposure to the influenza\".Manuel Diaz Cebrian, from the Mexican Tourism Board in London, said: \"This is like seeing light at the end of the tunnel and we are very happy. It means tour operators will go ahead with their flights and people will start considering Mexico again as a destination. It's the first step to the recovery of the perception of Mexico. But it's going to take almost a year to recover fully.\"He added that Mexico will bring forward a TV, print and radio promotional campaign it had planned for June to the end of May.Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all outbound holidays to the beach resorts of Canc\u00fan and Cozumel until 22 May, but said: \"In light of this updated advice, we are planning to begin operations to Mexico once again in the very near future, although we are not in a position to advise of an exact date at this time.\"The tour operators said that before they resume flights, they will need to have confirmation of when hotels will be re-opening, as many were closed due to lack of guests, and will need to make \"resort standard set-up checks\".Thomas Cook, which also flies to Canc\u00fan, said it will resume flights on May 23.", "tags": ["Travel", "Mexico holidays", "Swine flu"], "title": "Foreign Office lifts Mexico ban"},{"date": "2009-05-22T09:35:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City lowered its swine flu alert level from yellow to green late last night as the mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, claimed residents could \"relax\" as there had been no new infections for a week.Ebrard said the change meant the risk of contagion was low, the situation was under control and the images of countless people wearing blue surgical masks around the city could be consigned to history.There's no longer any need to wear masks, Ebrard said, adding: \"Now you can come to the city without any risk.\"With fears of an immediate global pandemic fading, Japan, where there have been almost 300 swine flu cases, also relaxed rules amid fears that the strict regulations could harm the economy and put needless restrictions on the public.\"It is important to make it possible for the local government to respond flexibly, depending on the situation of the region,\" the prime minister, Taro Aso, said.Under the new guidelines, suspected patients in areas where the number of cases are rapidly increasing would be allowed to go to regular medical clinics rather than only designated \"fever centres\" set up to deal with swine flu, the health minister, Yoichi Masuzoe, said.The World Health Organisation today said that 42 countries had recorded 11,168 cases of swine flu, including 86 deaths, since the outbreak was first noticed in Mexico last month.In Italy, two secondary schools in Rome have been ordered to close for a week after four students caught the H1N1 flu virus on a trip to New York.In Mexico, where 75 swine flu deaths have occurred, the health authorities said no one had been taken to hospital with respiratory infections in the past three days. There have been no confirmed swine flu cases since May 14.\"We are seeing a 96% drop in cases and that's why we are dropping the alert level to green today,\" the Mexico City health secretary, Armando Ahued, said.Since the outbreak was declared on 23 April, Mexico City has spent 4.5bn pesos (\u00a3217m) on medicine and antibacterial gel and to provide incentives for businesses to shut their doors and to clean public spaces.A total of 4,008 people have been infected in Mexico. The country's confirmed toll has been rising as scientists test a backlog of samples from patients.Ebrard urged Mexicans to remain vigilant, to maintain sanitary conditions in places where crowds gather such as the metro system and schools, and to support a \"culture of health\".\"The big lesson is that we understand what the scientists have been saying for a decade: that we have to be prepared for any possible virus that can appear,\" the mayor said.Nearly 80% of those who died were between 20 and 54, according to the health department. However, many suffered from underlying medical conditions. Almost 30% were obese or had other metabolical problems, and 13% had \u00adcardiovascular problems.New test results from the US Centres of Disease Control show that people in their 60s and older have signs of greater immunity to the new swine flu virus.Scientists think that is because older people have been exposed to other viruses that are more similar to swine flu than more recent seasonal flu.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "Japan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Mexico City lowers swine flu alert"},{"date": "2009-05-01T20:14:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was the silence more than anything. No rumble of traffic. No voices in the street. No footsteps. Nothing to betray the existence of 20m people.The cacophony of noise and life that breaks with the dawn missed its cue in Mexico Citytoday. The sun rose higher but it made no difference. The avenues stayed empty.It was a day of firsts: the first of May. The first of a five day nationwide shutdown. The first time an epidemic had stilled one of the world's great cities. A first time to do lots of things: sit in the middle of Paseo de la Reforma and not get run over; stroll through the woods of Bosque de Chapultepec and not see another soul; have the No 18 bus \u2013 there was the occasional bus \u2013 all to yourself.For Adriana Mendez, 25, a tamale seller on Bajio street, it was the first time she was so bereft of customers that she curled up and slept at her stall in the middle of the day. \"God, it's quiet,\" she said, waking up and rubbing her eyes.Further up the street there was another glimpse of life: three policeman at a junction waiting for traffic to direct. \"I'm supposed to be training these two cadets but how can I do that if there are no cars?\" said Reyes Alguilar, 62, a veteran of the force. He was cleaning his own car with a red cloth. \"Might as well do something useful, right?\"Smog had cleared, revealing an azure sky, but the city felt heavy, expectant. The authorities said the H1N1 flu epidemic seemed to be easing and that the five-day lockdown would help snuff out the threat. But what if it didn't? What if restaurants, offices, factories, schools, museums would have to remain shut? What if economic pain turned to agony?An opinion poll said that 90% of Mexicans believe the federal government has responded well or very well to the epidemic \u2013 but that could swiftly change if the crisis continues. Even before the epidemic Mexico had been hit by plunging exports and oil revenues, shrinking the economy by 7% in the first quarter.Tourism, on which many jobs depend, has disappeared. \"Its logical that it would be that way and there is not much we can do about it at the moment,\" said the tourism minister, Rodolfo Elisondo.It may not help much that there is a t-shirt for sale which bears the image of a pig and the slogan: \"I went to Mexico City and all I got was swine flu.\"For the few out on the streets, there was an immediate question: what if the person approaching me is infected? In a pew at the cathedral one worshipper looked in horror at the runny nose of the man beside him and fled.Billboard advertising offered mocking reminders of normality. The action film Wolverine was supposed to open last week but the premiere was cancelled. All the cinemas are shut.Mexico City resembled a film set for an apocalyptic tale. I Am Legend, perhaps, or 28 Days Later, but there were no zombies, just ordinary people making the best of a grim \u00adsituation. On Thursday, as lockdown approached, the only queues were outside DVD shops. The most popular rentals were cartoons, said a Blockbuster employee.Today was supposed to be \u00adworkers' day. Normally tens of \u00adthousands of flag-wavers would congregate in the Zocalo, a magnifient plaza. \u00adFabiano Lopez, a 73-year-old Marxist in a yellow shirt, stood in the empty square holding a red flag. It was the only one. Capitalism had orchestrated the epidemic, he said. \"I'm not worried. My comrades will come later. You'll see.\"", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "World news", "Flu", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Shutdown for epidemic turns Mexico City silent"},{"date": "2009-05-22T20:46:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake swayed skyscrapers in Mexico City and rattled colonial buildings in neighbouring Puebla state today, sending frightened people into the streets. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and was centred 90 miles (140km) south-east of the capital in Puebla. The Mexican seismological service measured it at 5.9.Mexico City office worker Mariana Rodriguez, 20, was in a 19th-floor bathroom when she felt her building sway.\"I saw in the mirror that everything was moving,\" she said. \"The soap even fell down. We were really nervous, but they didn't let us leave the building.\"But many did run outside across the metropolis of 20 million, and waited several minutes before returning indoors. The capital has lived through powerful earthquakes, including one in 1985 that killed as many as 10,000 people.Others immediately got on Facebook and Twitter to tell friends and family they were OK. Some said mobile phone service was knocked out.Today's earthquake was stronger and closer to the capital than one that hit last month. But Bruce Tresgrave of the US Geological Survey said it was 35 miles below ground deeper than normal and thus unlikely to cause major damage.Mexican TV network Televisa said there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage in Mexico City or at its epicentre in Puebla.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.7 magnitude earthquake rattles Mexico City"},{"date": "2009-05-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A voice from head-quarters crackles over the army radio. \"Shots fired on Avenida de los Insurgentes. Gunmen operating from two, maybe three vehicles. Target unknown.\" It is 9.20am, a remorseless sun is already blistering the city, and the soldiers have their first mission of the day. Engines roar into life and the convoy of green army trucks and blue-and-white police cars swerves through traffic in a blur of sirens.Amazingly, the target is still alive. Suit saturated in blood, skin flour-white, eyes wild, but alive. He is slumped at a shopfront, red palm-prints smeared on the glass door; behind him a trail of dark stains, a black shoe and broken glass from a framed painting that he dropped. The gunmen are gone. The victim, a 51-year-old businessman, took two bullets escaping a kidnap attempt. Given the grotesque ways that captivity tends to end in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, he is lucky.An ambulance ferries the stretchered figure to hospital while a familiar tableau arranges itself. Soldiers seal off the scene with yellow tape. Photographers and TV crews stake out positions. A police helicopter clatters overhead. The owners of the bloodied property - a graphic design company called Pop Estudio - attack the stains with brooms and an orange tub of Mr Musculo Multi-Accion. In Ju\u00e1rez, everyone knows to clean quickly, before the blood stinks in the desert heat.I have witnessed just one skirmish in a multi-pronged, brutal drugs war that is convulsing Mexico. Forget the swine flu epidemic, this war has proved many times more deadly. Since 2007, approximately 7,600 people have been killed - more than double the number killed over three decades in Northern Ireland's Troubles. Some Mexican cities have surpassed Iraq's levels of mayhem. Drug cartels are butchering weaker rivals in a Darwinian contest for la plaza - trafficking routes that bring unimaginable wealth to those who control them.The savagery is numbing. Mutilated bodies turn up daily - some suspended from bridges, others dumped in schools or on roadsides. Human remains are found in barrels of acid. Severed heads are rolled on to nightclub dancefloors, or left at monuments with notes stuck in their mouths. Police chiefs are ambushed in broad daylight, after which the killers play narcocorridos (ballads glorifying their deeds) on police frequencies. Somewhere in the middle of all this are 111 million ordinary Mexicans, aghast at the horror.In Ju\u00e1rez, graffiti spraypainted on a wall reads: \"My city asks for clemency amid your madness.\" Another says: \"Assassin do not kill me, I want to keep growing - the children.\"The United States is worried, too. Barry McCaffrey, a former drug tsar and retired general, has raised the prospect of \"millions of refugees\" if the mayhem continues. The US Joint Forces Command warns of the danger to US security. Analysts have debated at what point Mexico may fit the definition of a failed state. On a visit to Mexico City in April, President Barack Obama warned that border violence spillover was \"sowing chaos in our communities\". All of which begs the question: is Mexico doomed?The answer resides in Ju\u00e1rez. This hardscrabble sprawl of slums, sweatshop factories, strip malls, motels and gas stations, all bleached and peeled by desert wind, is the war's crucible. Walk to the end of Avenida Ju\u00e1rez and you see why: across a dry riverbed - the Rio Grande - sits El Paso, Texas. More than a frontier between the developed and the developing worlds, it is a gateway to the American drug consumer. It takes 10 minutes to cross the Paso del Norte international bridge and you pay three pesos (20 US cents) at the turnstile. Smugglers tend to prefer sandier, clandestine crossings.More than 1,600 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez last year, a ferocious number for a city of just 1.3m. Knock off two zeroes and you get El Paso's murder total: 16. Little wonder billboards on the southern side of the border are obsessed by salvation. \"God is the solution,\" declares one. \"Give peace a chance,\" says another, beside a picture of John Lennon. Avenida G\u00f3mez Morin has the most plaintive: \"Pray for Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez. We need it.\"A hundred yards up the highway, a grieving family were doing precisely that at the Eternal Flame funeral home when gunmen stormed in to re-shoot the corpse in his coffin. The owner of a bar called Amores, he had been killed days earlier by a narco gang that evidently felt more punishment was needed. For good measure, in the second attack they also shot his brother, the owner of another bar. \"It was a difficult time,\" says Ricardo, the funeral home manager, with magisterial understatement.There is a logic to the bloodshed, which goes something like this. Colombia, the source of most US-bound cocaine, used to be the main narco battlefield until the 90s, when Mexican gangs seized control of the transit routes north. Ju\u00e1rez was the domain of Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the legendary \"Lord of the Skies\". Since his death in 1997, the cartel has been headed by his brother Vicente.Two rivals, the Sinaloa cartel from the Pacific coast and the Gulf cartel from the other side of Mexico, invaded to wrest control of la plaza from the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel. In addition to their own death squads, they sub-contracted killings to local gangs with names such as the Aztecas (affiliated to Ju\u00e1rez) and the Mexicles (Sinaloa). Now the Gulf cartel has withdrawn and a faction from Ju\u00e1rez has defected to Sinaloa, giving the edge to its leader, Joaquin \"Short and Stocky\" Guzman, Mexico's most wanted man.In theory, killings and kidnappings are tactical operations to defeat the other side and extort money from those caught in the middle. In practice, anarchy reigns. Police in the border city of Tijuana recently announced that drug traffickers had smothered three women, aged 23 to 25, and dissolved their bodies in a caustic substance because of an argument in a bar.Meanwhile, in Ju\u00e1rez, the plague of disappearances of young women that made the city infamous in the 1990s continues unchecked. Whoever abducts them - theories include human traffickers, rogue police and narco gangs - exploits the insecurity and impunity wrought by the drug war. A wooden cross memorial with more than 300 nails - each representing a desaparecida from the last decade - is inscribed \"Not one more\". Yet shopfronts and lampposts are haunted with posters appealing for information about recent victims. Typically in mid-to-late teens, the girls gaze from grainy photographs, some grinning, some solemn. \"The police did nothing. The army did nothing. They're like toy soldiers,\" says Maria Hern\u00e1ndez, 70, the grandmother of Lidia, a medical student who vanished last December. Asked what age Lidia was, the elderly woman, eyes moist, amends the tense. \"Is,\" she says quietly. \"What age she is. Seventeen.\"But if Ju\u00e1rez embodies Mexico's crisis, it also, according to the government, embodies its solution. The city is the showcase for a radical policy to deploy the army. With police too frightened - and corrupt - to respond to all the violence, some 2,000 soldiers arrived in March 2008. It was, at first, a fiasco. The narcos escalated attacks on each other, the security forces and anybody else who stood in their way. Staff at the local paper, El Diario, tracked murder tolls with a blue marker on a news-room \"board of death\". Traffickers tried to intimidate the media by leaving a severed head at a journalists' monument. Shortly afterwards, El Diario's investigative reporter, Armando Rodr\u00edguez, was shot dead. \"It just got worse and worse. It reached a level we had never seen before,\" says Roc\u00edo Gallegos, a news editor on the paper.In March this year, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n went for broke: 10,000 soldiers and federal police officers saturated Ju\u00e1rez, part of a 45,000-strong taskforce. A fresh rotation entered the city earlier this month: a mile-long convoy of Humvees, trucks and hardware. And the army's presence has smothered violence in the city: murders fell from 234 in February to 77 in March and 85 in April. Crime has plunged 80%. The police, a disgraced and humiliated force which had been largely coopted by the narcos, are being rebuilt. Hundreds of officers have been purged and new cadets are being trained by military police.\"There is no quick fix, but I am sure we can succeed in the long term. The army cannot be infiltrated by narco-traffickers,\" says Julian Rivera Breton, an army general who is the new police chief. It is a hellish job. Narcos forced out Breton's predecessor by killing an officer every 48 hours until he quit. Police stations are fortresses with sentries, sandbags, machine-gun nests and black ribbons for fallen comrades. My dictaphone is banned for \"security reasons\" from the general's vicinity, but Breton is upbeat. \"This level of co-ordination between the army, police and different levels of government is unprecedented. We have public confidence. This has started well and it must end well.\"The Obama administration, which has heaped praise on President Calder\u00f3n's courage, said it will do its bit by stemming the \"iron river\" of guns flowing south across the border. An even larger favour to Mexico would be stemming US demand for cocaine and methamphetamines, an insatiable market that drives the economics, and atrocities, of narco-trafficking. Law enforcement officials recognise that as long as there is demand - and profits - drugs will always find a way in. The hope, from Mexico's viewpoint, is to redirect the flow.\"We're not going to stop drugs reaching the US, but we can make Mexico a difficult option and force traffickers to use other routes,\" says Jos\u00e9 Reyes Ferriz, the mayor of Ju\u00e1rez.Certainly, several drug lords have been captured in recent months and Mexico's government has indicated that the army will stay on the streets until 2013. \"We are not on our knees; we are still walking,\" says Gallegos, the newspaper editor.Walking, or at least staggering, yes. But winning the war? Look behind the lower murder rates and official spin and the picture looks grim. Mexico is not defeating narco-traffickers. Stalemate seems the likeliest outcome. Janet Napolitano, the US secretary of homeland security, warned as much at a senate judiciary committee hearing earlier this month: \"Yes, we have seen a reduction in violence, but how long can it be sustained?\"A trade worth billions of dollars needs a corrupt nexus of business and politics. Saulo Reyes Gamboa, Ju\u00e1rez's former municipal police chief, was arrested in El Paso last year on suspicion of trying to smuggle a tonne of marijuana. He had interests in multiple companies and was a protege of the former mayor, Hect\u00f3r Murgu\u00eda Lardiz\u00e1bal. Result: one year later, there are no investigations into the companies and Murgu\u00eda, who denies any wrongdoing, has shrugged off the scandal and is tipped to be the next governor.The current mayor, Reyes Ferriz, is considered honest but, interviewed behind his huge desk, he flounders when asked why no politicians or business leaders have been charged. \"Ah.\" Long pause. \"Yes. That's, er, an interesting question. I don't have, um, that information. I think you should ask the attorney general's office.\"The bleak realisation that narcos are here to stay is etched in the crumbling neglect of slums such as Colonia Diaz Ordaz. A collection of hillside shacks hemmed in by parched mountains and the US border fence, it feels claustrophobic. Secondary schools barely function, leading to a 50% drop-out rate. The only legitimate jobs are in sweatshops that pay $40 a week. Welfare and healthcare are poor or absent. \"The state doesn't function here,\" says Teresa Almada Mireles, who runs a youth rehabilitation centre. \"At the last count there were 3,000 gangs in Ju\u00e1rez. They fill a vacuum.\"Some traffickers no longer bother to cross the border: business is booming within Mexico. Growing numbers of crack addicts have pushed up the price for a gram of cocaine in Ju\u00e1rez to $20, the same as in El Paso. \"Except that here the quality is rubbish - it's mixed with other stuff so dealers make even more money,\" says Joe Nevarez, 54, a wiry, intense former addict who runs a shelter, Alcance Victoria, for junkies. \"Mexico used to be a bridge for drugs but now a lot of it stays. We're saturated.\"Another orange fireball of a sun sinks over the desert and Ju\u00e1rez's streets begin to empty. Jesus Arrieta, 80, a grubby Stetson on his head and a Kodak camera around his neck, limps home with his bad leg after a failed day trying to sell portraits to nonexistent tourists. He dreads the encounter awaiting him at home: his 29-year-old crack addict son demanding 100 pesos ($7.50) from him.\"Every night, the same. I can't stand it.\" Arrieta fidgets and rubs his eyes. \"God forgive me, but they need to lock him up.\" He grabs my collar and twists it into a knot. \"Lock him up so he can't get out, tight, like this.\" He loosens his grip and gulps some air. \"My own son, God forgive me.\" The old man shuffles on towards home.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Rory Carroll reports from Ju\u00e1rez on the front line of Mexico's savage drugs war"},{"date": "2009-04-27T18:11:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake struck central Mexico today, swaying tall buildings in the capital and sending office workers into the streets.The quake had a magnitude of 5.6 and was centred near Chilpancingo, about 130 miles south-west of Mexico City or 50 miles from the resort of Acapulco, according to the US geological survey.Televisa television network quoted Mexico City officials saying there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.The quake rattled nerves in a city already nervous about a swine flu outbreak suspected of killing as many as 149 people across the country.\"I'm scared,\" said Sarai Luna Pajas, a 22-year-old social services worker standing outside her office building moments after it hit. \"We Mexicans are not used to living with so much fear, but all that is happening the economic crisis, the illnesses and now this it feels like the Apocalypse.\"Co-worker Harold Gutierrez, 21, said the country was taking comfort from its religious faith, but he too was gripped by the sensation that the world might be coming to an end.\"If it is, it is God's plan,\" Gutierrez said, speaking over a green mask he wore to ward off swine flu.USGS earthquake analyst Don Blakeman said the quake was felt strongly in Mexico City because the epicentre was relatively shallow and the ground under the capital which is built on a former lake bed tends to intensify shock waves.\"Distant quakes are often felt\" strongly in the city, he said.The USGS revised the quake's magnitude down from its preliminary estimate of 6.0, and said its depth was 30 miles. ", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "5.6 magnitude earthquake strikes central Mexico"},{"date": "2009-04-21T20:30:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "While visions of taxes and tea parties danced in the heads of most Americans last week, preparations were being made south of the border to welcome President Barack Obama, who stopped over in Mexico City for less than a day before heading off to the Summit of the Americas in Trinidad and Tobago \u2013 just long enough to give Mexico bragging rights as the first country in the hemisphere to welcome him.An official state visit from the world's most popular and powerful leader, no less. A historic opportunity. Given the current panorama and dire nature of bilateral issues \u2013 immigration, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, Nafta enforcement \u2013 local expectations ran high. As the front page of tabloid La Prensa put it: \"Our future hangs in the balance!\"US secretary of state Hillary Clinton had already set the stage back in March, and Obama's arrival was timed to coincide with Alan Bersin's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu appointment as the new border tsar. For days, the press bubbled with an anticipation unparalleled since Kennedy's visit in 1962. Analysing Mexican media coverage of Obama's visit takes longer than the visit itself did. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n rolled out the bulletproof red carpet to welcome the world's most powerful political leader: 4,500 local and federal agents. A military salute. Choirs of fresh-faced children. A cordoned route along a one-mile stretch of Reforma Boulevard that led from the helicopter pad at Campo Marte to the press conference at the presidential residence, Los Pinos, over to the gala dinner at the Museum of Anthropology, then back to his suite at the aptly named Hotel Presidente. Transportation was furnished by The Beast, a limousine outfitted with shotguns and tear gas, a chassis reinforced with a five-inch steel plate to withstand any blasts, kevlar-coated tires, wi-fi and direct satellite communications with the Pentagon and vice-president to tide him over during those 10-minute car rides and (my personal favourite) a trunk equipped with bottles of the president's blood in case of emergency. Fortunately, no transfusions were necessary.So after all the build-up, what was in the news the next day? Obama admitted, as his secretary of state had before him, shared responsibility for the ongoing cartel-related violence in northern Mexico. Calder\u00f3n obligingly offered several strategies to contain the flow of semi-automatic weapons into Mexico \u2013 where gun-control legislation is far more stringent \u2013 without challenging the constitutional right to bear arms in the US.Other than that, there were only a few tidbits scattered among the overwhelming consensus that Nothing Happened.During a gala dinner graced by the presence of the world's richest man, Carlos Slim Hel\u00fa, Obama was approached by teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo, a rather polemic figure who helped swing the presidential elections in 2006. Clinging to his arm, she pointed out Calder\u00f3n and assured Obama that he's a \"good man\".But look who didn't come to dinner: members of Congress representing the leftwing Labour, Alternative and Social Convergence parties had first been invited, then crassly uninvited, triggering a boycott of the event by all Representatives who weren't members of the National Action Party (PAN). This, together with the removal of anything or anyone falling within the perimeter of Obama's mini-Mexico City, meant there was no chance he would come into contact with any form of opposition to Calder\u00f3n's policies (otherwise known as democracy).In order for the United States and Mexico to achieve a significant change in their relationship, one that will reflect a changing reality, lip service regarding joint efforts must be complemented with a crash course in Mexican society, culture and history. You cannot help those whom you do not understand.And the need for greater awareness is pressing, given that our understanding in the US of, for example, Cuba is far more developed than our understanding of Mexico. This despite the fact that the island's importance is largely symbolic at this point, whereas Mexico's role in the future of the US is vital.He came, he saw ... he left. Unfortunately, the current Mexican administration made sure that Obama's visit would provide him with only an extremely limited bird's-eye view.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Tanya Huntington Hyde: Obama's Mexico trip gave him a very limited view of the country"},{"date": "2009-05-15T17:36:30Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Foreign and Commonwealth Office this evening lifted its advisory against all but essential travel to Mexico, meaning that tour operators can resume outbound holidays to the country.The FCO said: \"Following a decline in the number of reported new swine influenza cases in Mexico since its peak on 26 April, we no longer advise against all but essential travel.\" It adds that \"British Nationals should continue to follow local advice on precautions to take to avoid exposure to the influenza\".Manuel Diaz Cebrian, from the Mexican Tourism Board in London, said: \"This is like seeing light at the end of the tunnel and we are very happy. It means tour operators will go ahead with their flights and people will start considering Mexico again as a destination. It's the first step to the recovery of the perception of Mexico. But it's going to take almost a year to recover fully.\"He added that Mexico will bring forward a TV, print and radio promotional campaign it had planned for June to the end of May.Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all outbound holidays to the beach resorts of Canc\u00fan and Cozumel until 22 May, but said: \"In light of this updated advice, we are planning to begin operations to Mexico once again in the very near future, although we are not in a position to advise of an exact date at this time.\"The tour operators said that before they resume flights, they will need to have confirmation of when hotels will be re-opening, as many were closed due to lack of guests, and will need to make \"resort standard set-up checks\".Thomas Cook, which also flies to Canc\u00fan, said it will resume flights on May 23.", "tags": ["Travel", "Mexico holidays", "Swine flu"], "title": "Foreign Office lifts Mexico ban"},{"date": "2009-05-22T09:35:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico City lowered its swine flu alert level from yellow to green late last night as the mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, claimed residents could \"relax\" as there had been no new infections for a week.Ebrard said the change meant the risk of contagion was low, the situation was under control and the images of countless people wearing blue surgical masks around the city could be consigned to history.There's no longer any need to wear masks, Ebrard said, adding: \"Now you can come to the city without any risk.\"With fears of an immediate global pandemic fading, Japan, where there have been almost 300 swine flu cases, also relaxed rules amid fears that the strict regulations could harm the economy and put needless restrictions on the public.\"It is important to make it possible for the local government to respond flexibly, depending on the situation of the region,\" the prime minister, Taro Aso, said.Under the new guidelines, suspected patients in areas where the number of cases are rapidly increasing would be allowed to go to regular medical clinics rather than only designated \"fever centres\" set up to deal with swine flu, the health minister, Yoichi Masuzoe, said.The World Health Organisation today said that 42 countries had recorded 11,168 cases of swine flu, including 86 deaths, since the outbreak was first noticed in Mexico last month.In Italy, two secondary schools in Rome have been ordered to close for a week after four students caught the H1N1 flu virus on a trip to New York.In Mexico, where 75 swine flu deaths have occurred, the health authorities said no one had been taken to hospital with respiratory infections in the past three days. There have been no confirmed swine flu cases since May 14.\"We are seeing a 96% drop in cases and that's why we are dropping the alert level to green today,\" the Mexico City health secretary, Armando Ahued, said.Since the outbreak was declared on 23 April, Mexico City has spent 4.5bn pesos (\u00a3217m) on medicine and antibacterial gel and to provide incentives for businesses to shut their doors and to clean public spaces.A total of 4,008 people have been infected in Mexico. The country's confirmed toll has been rising as scientists test a backlog of samples from patients.Ebrard urged Mexicans to remain vigilant, to maintain sanitary conditions in places where crowds gather such as the metro system and schools, and to support a \"culture of health\".\"The big lesson is that we understand what the scientists have been saying for a decade: that we have to be prepared for any possible virus that can appear,\" the mayor said.Nearly 80% of those who died were between 20 and 54, according to the health department. However, many suffered from underlying medical conditions. Almost 30% were obese or had other metabolical problems, and 13% had \u00adcardiovascular problems.New test results from the US Centres of Disease Control show that people in their 60s and older have signs of greater immunity to the new swine flu virus.Scientists think that is because older people have been exposed to other viruses that are more similar to swine flu than more recent seasonal flu.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "Japan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Mexico City lowers swine flu alert"},{"date": "2009-05-01T20:14:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was the silence more than anything. No rumble of traffic. No voices in the street. No footsteps. Nothing to betray the existence of 20m people.The cacophony of noise and life that breaks with the dawn missed its cue in Mexico Citytoday. The sun rose higher but it made no difference. The avenues stayed empty.It was a day of firsts: the first of May. The first of a five day nationwide shutdown. The first time an epidemic had stilled one of the world's great cities. A first time to do lots of things: sit in the middle of Paseo de la Reforma and not get run over; stroll through the woods of Bosque de Chapultepec and not see another soul; have the No 18 bus \u2013 there was the occasional bus \u2013 all to yourself.For Adriana Mendez, 25, a tamale seller on Bajio street, it was the first time she was so bereft of customers that she curled up and slept at her stall in the middle of the day. \"God, it's quiet,\" she said, waking up and rubbing her eyes.Further up the street there was another glimpse of life: three policeman at a junction waiting for traffic to direct. \"I'm supposed to be training these two cadets but how can I do that if there are no cars?\" said Reyes Alguilar, 62, a veteran of the force. He was cleaning his own car with a red cloth. \"Might as well do something useful, right?\"Smog had cleared, revealing an azure sky, but the city felt heavy, expectant. The authorities said the H1N1 flu epidemic seemed to be easing and that the five-day lockdown would help snuff out the threat. But what if it didn't? What if restaurants, offices, factories, schools, museums would have to remain shut? What if economic pain turned to agony?An opinion poll said that 90% of Mexicans believe the federal government has responded well or very well to the epidemic \u2013 but that could swiftly change if the crisis continues. Even before the epidemic Mexico had been hit by plunging exports and oil revenues, shrinking the economy by 7% in the first quarter.Tourism, on which many jobs depend, has disappeared. \"Its logical that it would be that way and there is not much we can do about it at the moment,\" said the tourism minister, Rodolfo Elisondo.It may not help much that there is a t-shirt for sale which bears the image of a pig and the slogan: \"I went to Mexico City and all I got was swine flu.\"For the few out on the streets, there was an immediate question: what if the person approaching me is infected? In a pew at the cathedral one worshipper looked in horror at the runny nose of the man beside him and fled.Billboard advertising offered mocking reminders of normality. The action film Wolverine was supposed to open last week but the premiere was cancelled. All the cinemas are shut.Mexico City resembled a film set for an apocalyptic tale. I Am Legend, perhaps, or 28 Days Later, but there were no zombies, just ordinary people making the best of a grim \u00adsituation. On Thursday, as lockdown approached, the only queues were outside DVD shops. The most popular rentals were cartoons, said a Blockbuster employee.Today was supposed to be \u00adworkers' day. Normally tens of \u00adthousands of flag-wavers would congregate in the Zocalo, a magnifient plaza. \u00adFabiano Lopez, a 73-year-old Marxist in a yellow shirt, stood in the empty square holding a red flag. It was the only one. Capitalism had orchestrated the epidemic, he said. \"I'm not worried. My comrades will come later. You'll see.\"", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "World news", "Flu", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Shutdown for epidemic turns Mexico City silent"},{"date": "2009-05-03T17:05:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has protested about an international backlash against Mexican travellers who have been quarantined and banned from several countries as suspected flu carriers.Mexican authorities tonight singled out China for its draconian measures and criticised four Latin American countries for restricting air links. More than 70 Mexican travellers were quarantined in hospitals and hotels in China as part of sweeping measures against swine flu.\"Mexican citizens showing no signs at all of being ill have been isolated under unacceptable conditions,\" said Patricia Espinosa, Mexico's foreign minister. \"These are discriminatory measures, without foundation. The foreign ministry recommends avoiding travelling to China until these measures are corrected.\"Hostility towards Mexicans spread to the United States where talkshows referred to \"fajita flu\" and \"infected illegal aliens\", injecting fresh rancour into the immigration debate.Colombia and Chile denied the use of stadiums to two Mexican football teams for the Copa Libertadores de America, a regional tournament.A Mexican team that was allowed to play in Chile complained it was treated \"like lepers\". One player, Hector Reynoso, responded to apparent taunts by coughing and blowing mucus at an opposing player and shouting: \"Now I have infected you with swine flu.\" He later apologised.Peru, Argentina, Cuba and Ecuador have restricted flights to Mexico, prompting complaints by Espinosa. \"We're surprised by the adoption of unjustified measures,\" the minister said.Health officials said Mexico's epidemic appeared to be ebbing after a national shutdown. The death toll remained at 19 and the number of confirmed cases increased slightly to 506, including the dead. \"The evolution of the epidemic is now in its declining phase,\" said Jose Angel Cordova, the health minister.The diplomatic flap with China broke after Mexicans were reportedly asked to identify themselves on arriving flights and then isolated. A 25-year-old Mexican man became China's \u2013 and Asia's \u2013 first confirmed swine flu case on Friday. He transited through Shanghai en route to Hong Kong, where he has been hospitalised. Some 350 people have been quarantined at the Hong Kong hotel where he stayed.The Mexican consul general in Guangzhou was briefly detained after returning from a Cambodian vacation, said Jorge Guajardo, Mexico's ambassador to Beijing.In another case, a Beijing hotel woke a family of five at 4am, moved them to a hospital for tests and then drove them to a hotel near the airport where they were being held incommunicado with other Mexicans, said Guajardo. police rebuffed the ambassador's attempts to gain entry.Chinese officials said tough measures were justified and legal.\"I think they can understand what we have done,\" Xu Jianguang, director of Shanghai's health bureau, told a news conference. \"This is for the sake of their own personal health and for the rest of society.\"The Sars outbreak in 2002/3 and cases of avian flu have made officials anxious about controlling the spread of swine flu. The size of the population and the patchy health system increase the risks of a serious outbreak.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Mexico", "China", "Peru", "Argentina", "Cuba", "Ecuador", "World news", "Flu", "Life and style", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Mexico complains of swine flu backlash"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Not before time The Holy See, with scapel in hand, is turning to Mexico and Central America where it needs to carry out urgent and comprehensive surgery.Last week Rome announced the membership of the five-man committee charged with a worldwide investigation of the the congregation of the Legionaires of Christ, a group founded by the Mexican cleric Marcial Maciel Degollado who died last year at the age of 88 in an odour of something short of sanctity. As far as Maciel was concerned a new form of Legionaires' Disease consisted of a crushing diet of authoritarianism imposed by a priest who had a daughter of 20 from a long-term relationship with a lover and who was protected by some of the most senior people in the Vatican.Founded in 1941, the congregation has grown rapidly, becoming a source of scandal and embarrassment. In 1970 it had 68 priests in its ranks. Today it has more than eleven times that number, not to speak of 2,500 men studying to be priests and 65,000 lay members in its offshoot Regnum Christi, the Kingdom of Christ. Members include two Dubliners called Farrell who have risen high. Kevin is now in the US as bishop of Dallas and the other, Brian, incredible as it might appear, is in the Vatican as secretary of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. Long ago the council had been distinguished by the presence of such theological giants such as the Jesuit Cardinal Bea, the Dominican Cardinal Hamer and the Archbishop of Utrecht Cardinal Willibrands, none of whom, happily, was accused of any connection to the Legionaires.Maciel's followers enjoy their greatest influence in Central America. One of the investigative committee, Bishop Ricardo Watti of the scruffy Mexican town of Tepic, has the biggest job, that of sorting out 44 of the Legionaries' houses and more than 115 priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood in Mexico and neighbouring countries to the south.The four others are charged with the task in the US and Canada; in Italy and Asia (from Israel to South Korea); in South America and in the rest of Europe.Thomas Berg, a US priest who recently quit the organisation, aired his views this month on the excellent chiesa.espresso.repubblica.it website.\"Legionary seminarians\" he said, \"are essentially trained to suspend reason in their obedience and to seek a total internal conformity with all the norms, and to withstand any internal impulse to examine or critique the norms or the indications of superiors.\" The result, he reported, was \"the shallowness of their emotional expression, the lack of empathy and inability to relate normally to others in so many contexts, the general sense of their being 'out of touch' etc.\"For a long time, tensions within the Vatican prevented Maciel and his regime being disciplined. His supporters ranged from George Weigel, a rightwing US catholic, to Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican's secretary of state, a conservative who as papal nuncio in Chile for a decade from 1977, when he did an efficient job in bringing the Holy See closer to the Pinochet dictatorship.In the end, after the real situation in the organisation became public, the pope approved an order in 2006 telling Maciel to retreat into \"penitence and prayer, relinquishing any form of public ministry\". He was lucky that his age was taken as a reason for him not being tried in an ecclesiastical court.Now the five bishops have the job of trying to clean up after Maciel. While Central America catches Rome's attention thought should be given to some fitting recognition for Archbishop Oscar Romero, slaughtered in 1980, and to the six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter who were murdered in November 1989. All nine were butchered by US-trained assassins in San Salvador.And, though it's not strictly part of his Central American brief, Bishop Watti should find time to ask the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Cardinal Oscar Rodr\u00edguez Maradiaga, how he came to side with a foreign engineered coup against Manuel Zelaya, the elected and legitimate president of Honduras, after he initially seemed to support him. The cardinal asked him not to return from the exile into which some local and US businessmen had flung him. The cleric aligned himself with the impostor Roberto Micheletti and his overseas backers. Micheletti's choice as \"foreign minister\" an aged banker Enrique Ortez Colindres had the novel diplomatic idea of addressing President Barack Obama with a racial slur and saying he \"knows nothing about anything\" on television. The cardinal once had high hopes of being elected. His gaffe over Micheletti will have shrivelled them.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Christianity", "Mexico", "Honduras", "Americas"], "title": "Confronting the Legion of Christ in Mexico | Hugh O'Shaughnessy"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Not before time The Holy See, with scapel in hand, is turning to Mexico and Central America where it needs to carry out urgent and comprehensive surgery.Last week Rome announced the membership of the five-man committee charged with a worldwide investigation of the the congregation of the Legionaires of Christ, a group founded by the Mexican cleric Marcial Maciel Degollado who died last year at the age of 88 in an odour of something short of sanctity. As far as Maciel was concerned a new form of Legionaires' Disease consisted of a crushing diet of authoritarianism imposed by a priest who had a daughter of 20 from a long-term relationship with a lover and who was protected by some of the most senior people in the Vatican.Founded in 1941, the congregation has grown rapidly, becoming a source of scandal and embarrassment. In 1970 it had 68 priests in its ranks. Today it has more than eleven times that number, not to speak of 2,500 men studying to be priests and 65,000 lay members in its offshoot Regnum Christi, the Kingdom of Christ. Members include two Dubliners called Farrell who have risen high. Kevin is now in the US as bishop of Dallas and the other, Brian, incredible as it might appear, is in the Vatican as secretary of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. Long ago the council had been distinguished by the presence of such theological giants such as the Jesuit Cardinal Bea, the Dominican Cardinal Hamer and the Archbishop of Utrecht Cardinal Willibrands, none of whom, happily, was accused of any connection to the Legionaires.Maciel's followers enjoy their greatest influence in Central America. One of the investigative committee, Bishop Ricardo Watti of the scruffy Mexican town of Tepic, has the biggest job, that of sorting out 44 of the Legionaries' houses and more than 115 priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood in Mexico and neighbouring countries to the south.The four others are charged with the task in the US and Canada; in Italy and Asia (from Israel to South Korea); in South America and in the rest of Europe.Thomas Berg, a US priest who recently quit the organisation, aired his views this month on the excellent chiesa.espresso.repubblica.it website.\"Legionary seminarians\" he said, \"are essentially trained to suspend reason in their obedience and to seek a total internal conformity with all the norms, and to withstand any internal impulse to examine or critique the norms or the indications of superiors.\" The result, he reported, was \"the shallowness of their emotional expression, the lack of empathy and inability to relate normally to others in so many contexts, the general sense of their being 'out of touch' etc.\"For a long time, tensions within the Vatican prevented Maciel and his regime being disciplined. His supporters ranged from George Weigel, a rightwing US catholic, to Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican's secretary of state, a conservative who as papal nuncio in Chile for a decade from 1977, when he did an efficient job in bringing the Holy See closer to the Pinochet dictatorship.In the end, after the real situation in the organisation became public, the pope approved an order in 2006 telling Maciel to retreat into \"penitence and prayer, relinquishing any form of public ministry\". He was lucky that his age was taken as a reason for him not being tried in an ecclesiastical court.Now the five bishops have the job of trying to clean up after Maciel. While Central America catches Rome's attention thought should be given to some fitting recognition for Archbishop Oscar Romero, slaughtered in 1980, and to the six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter who were murdered in November 1989. All nine were butchered by US-trained assassins in San Salvador.And, though it's not strictly part of his Central American brief, Bishop Watti should find time to ask the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Cardinal Oscar Rodr\u00edguez Maradiaga, how he came to side with a foreign engineered coup against Manuel Zelaya, the elected and legitimate president of Honduras, after he initially seemed to support him. The cardinal asked him not to return from the exile into which some local and US businessmen had flung him. The cleric aligned himself with the impostor Roberto Micheletti and his overseas backers. Micheletti's choice as \"foreign minister\" an aged banker Enrique Ortez Colindres had the novel diplomatic idea of addressing President Barack Obama with a racial slur and saying he \"knows nothing about anything\" on television. The cardinal once had high hopes of being elected. His gaffe over Micheletti will have shrivelled them.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Christianity", "Mexico", "Honduras", "Americas"], "title": "Confronting the Legion of Christ in Mexico | Hugh O'Shaughnessy"},{"date": "2009-09-16T08:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Whichever way you cut it, the Mexican tourism industry has been battling stiff odds lately: the depressed economy, the drug war, swine flu ... it all amounted to a perfect storm of bad business throughout a disastrous month of May, during which the lusty metropolis of Mexico City took on the pallor of the ghost town, with hotels and tour operators hit by a wave of cancellations. From the sound of things, all Mexico needed was a particularly bad hurricane season (still a possibility) to rub salt into its wounds, and the pitiful scenario would be complete.So how was the country actually handling its multifaceted crisis? To find out, I planned a road trip taking in town, country and coast, starting out and concluding in Guadalajara, the country's second-largest city. News of President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's 1.2bn peso \"Vive M\u00e9xico\" tourism campaign, with its promise of discounts, was \u2013 for the traveller at least \u2013 encouraging, and a cursory surf of the web revealed a spate of special offers and slashed rates: \"Get up to 70% off!\" promised Expedia; \"Pay half price for paradise\" announced Travelocity. Evidently, there was value to be had in the ether, but how would things feel on the ground?My week began at Caf\u00e9 Madrid on Avenida Juarez, downtown Guadalajara. I hadn't given even half a thought to the swine flu until an old man in a grey suit, who had been breakfasting next to me, unloaded the contents of his nose into a napkin, which the waitress casually picked up and discarded, before serving coffee elsewhere. For an instant, my sinuses started to twitch, sensing the inevitable onslaught of H1N1 germs ... which never arrived. Clearly, the sane approach was to rebuff the flu with nonchalance, so I breezed into the mid-morning along the city's main corridor of cultural buildings, the Plaza Tapat\u00eda.At the eastern end of the plaza is the Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, a former hospice built at the start of the 19th century. It's now an arts centre, with an unmissable series of murals by Jos\u00e9 Clemente Orozco. Painted on to the roof and walls of the capilla mayor, a sepulchral building at the heart of the complex, are gangs of masked demons, people crushed by machines, a hellish conquistador on a two-headed horse and other stark representations of Mexico's brutal past. In the middle of the structure, on the central dome, there's the unforgettable image of a man on fire, floating in a sea of infernal lava, giving the disorientating impression we're looking heavenwards into the flames of damnation. I cooled off with some bottled water.The molten intensity of Orozco's work turned out to be a preparation \u2013 of sorts \u2013 for the supremely relaxing Rio Caliente Hot Springs Spa, an hour west of the city off the Avenida Vallarta, not far from Mount Tequila. Bordered by a literally steaming \"hot river\", the property is set into the sides of an ancient volcanic crater in Primavera Forest National Park (Guadalajara's \"lungs\"), and attracts an international assortment of health-seekers, rat-race-refugees and nature-lovers. The resort's English owner-manager, Caroline Durston, first arrived in Guadalajara in the late 60s. After five years teaching English, followed by a six-month sideline drawing up astrological charts for Mexican government officials (which ended when \"they began to send for me privately, in the middle of the night, in armoured cars\"), she was asked to run Rio Caliente full-time, and has never left. In a gesture of defiance against the threat of H1N1, Durston has prominently displayed the photoshopped image of an airborne piglet riding a micro-scooter Evel Knievel-style, captioned \"The swine flew\".Rio Caliente is likely to appeal to those who would never normally consider a spa holiday. The price includes three vegetarian meals a day in a communal dining room that feels like a tree house: exotically coloured birds (the dazzling Vermillion Flycatcher; the bright orange Bullock's Oriole; the Golden Vireo) frequent eye-level branches almost within touching distance while you eat. Since it's all about the hot water at Rio Caliente, guests tend to spend a lot of time in the naturally heated swimming pools and plunge pools, as well as the subterranean steam room, built over an aquifer, in a variation on the temazcal sweat lodge tradition practised in the Americas for around 4,500 years. Eucalyptus leaves are laid over hot rocks, and the therapeutic effects of a brief, pore-draining session are almost immediately self-evident.Make no mistake \u2013 this is not a spa aimed at anyone who feels bereft without all the mod cons. The rooms don't have TVs or telephones, and there are some signs of wear around the edges, but if you want to get close to nature (guided forest hikes for all levels of fitness can be arranged) and soak up some time-tested volcanic goodness, Rio Caliente is well worth the price of admission: between $135-147 (\u00a380-90) per night.For around the same amount \u2013 one of the special offers introduced to boost business during the current slump \u2013 you can book a stay at the altogether more extravagant Grand Bay Hotel at Isla Navidad Resort in Manzanillo on the Pacific coast, four hours due south of Guadalajara on the fast-moving toll road. It rises up from its natural surroundings \u2013 a large, gated, semi-tropical peninsula \u2013 with little concession to modesty. If future archeologists were to analyse its ruins, they might conclude it was no mere hotel, but a self-contained citystate whose inhabitants worshipped the gods of golf, jet-skiing and agave-based spirits.Opened in 1997, the hotel has taken some of its cues from Vegas. The lobby leads to a spectacularly appointed bar (with ocean and lagoon views) via a white grand piano; some of the rooms have square pillars that swivel to reveal televisions; and there's a bar stocking 204 different types of tequila. If you like the sound of six Gran Turismo stars (a Mexican government classification) and four American Automobile Association diamonds, then there's definitely value to be had until the economy rights itself and the usual tariffs for luxury and exclusivity are restored.The return to Guadalajara, past the spectacular Colima volcano (the most active in Mexico), delivered a couple of days in one of the city's most likable, attractive and mellow areas, Tlaquepaque. Known for some time by interior designers as a place to source arts and crafts, the colonial neighbourhood has really come into its own over the past decade, and boasts a handful of modestly priced boutique hotels, including the excellent Quinta Don Jose.Music is played everywhere in Tlaquepaque, but it's best enjoyed at El Parian, a colonnaded square of bars surrounding a bandstand, where roving mariachi will offer to sell you a song or two over beers and snacks. Here, Guadalajara's nightly summer thunder rumbles away behind happy-sad harmonies and pristine blasts of silver trumpet \u2013 a commingling of sounds that mixes the joyful with the ominous, and fittingly underscores the tension between the best and worst of scenarios for Mexico's tourism industry.There are more than 100 flights a week from London to Guadalajara, across 15 airlines, but all involve at least one stop. Mexicana offers good value online via Chicago.Holiday Autos car rental at Guadalajara airport and downtown.AccommodationRio Caliente, Bosca Primavera, Jalisco. Booking contact in the US: +1 650 615 9543. Nightly rates from $135 (\u00a383) per personGrand Bay Hotel, Circuito de los Marinos S/N, Fraccionamiento Isla Navidad Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico 28830; +52 31 4331 0500. Special rates from $149.20 (\u00a391) per night are available online.Quinta Don Jose Hotel, Calle Reforma No 139 Tlaquepaque; +52 33 3635 7522. Rates from $75 (\u00a346) single to $150 (\u00a391) master suite, per night.VisitingCafe Madrid, Av Juarez 264, Between Corona and 16 de Septiembre, downtown; +52 33 3614 9504.Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, Calle Caba\u00f1as 8, Plaza Tapatia, Colonia Centro; +52 33 3668 1640.In the Yucatan, Hotel Hacienda Merida, a converted colonial building dating back to 1840, has a special rate of $99 (\u00a360) until the end of October.The mellow fishing village of Sayluita on the Pacific Coast of Nayarit is offering up to 50% discounts at a variety of properties. Hacienda Jalisco, in the throwback mountain village of San Sebastian del Oeste (Jalisco), has no electricity, just oil lamps and candles. The guest list has included Richard Burton and Peter O' Toole. Rooms start at just $55. ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Budget travel", "Mexico City holidays", "Swine flu", "Spa breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Mexico after swine flu: 'half price for paradise'"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Not before time The Holy See, with scapel in hand, is turning to Mexico and Central America where it needs to carry out urgent and comprehensive surgery.Last week Rome announced the membership of the five-man committee charged with a worldwide investigation of the the congregation of the Legionaires of Christ, a group founded by the Mexican cleric Marcial Maciel Degollado who died last year at the age of 88 in an odour of something short of sanctity. As far as Maciel was concerned a new form of Legionaires' Disease consisted of a crushing diet of authoritarianism imposed by a priest who had a daughter of 20 from a long-term relationship with a lover and who was protected by some of the most senior people in the Vatican.Founded in 1941, the congregation has grown rapidly, becoming a source of scandal and embarrassment. In 1970 it had 68 priests in its ranks. Today it has more than eleven times that number, not to speak of 2,500 men studying to be priests and 65,000 lay members in its offshoot Regnum Christi, the Kingdom of Christ. Members include two Dubliners called Farrell who have risen high. Kevin is now in the US as bishop of Dallas and the other, Brian, incredible as it might appear, is in the Vatican as secretary of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. Long ago the council had been distinguished by the presence of such theological giants such as the Jesuit Cardinal Bea, the Dominican Cardinal Hamer and the Archbishop of Utrecht Cardinal Willibrands, none of whom, happily, was accused of any connection to the Legionaires.Maciel's followers enjoy their greatest influence in Central America. One of the investigative committee, Bishop Ricardo Watti of the scruffy Mexican town of Tepic, has the biggest job, that of sorting out 44 of the Legionaries' houses and more than 115 priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood in Mexico and neighbouring countries to the south.The four others are charged with the task in the US and Canada; in Italy and Asia (from Israel to South Korea); in South America and in the rest of Europe.Thomas Berg, a US priest who recently quit the organisation, aired his views this month on the excellent chiesa.espresso.repubblica.it website.\"Legionary seminarians\" he said, \"are essentially trained to suspend reason in their obedience and to seek a total internal conformity with all the norms, and to withstand any internal impulse to examine or critique the norms or the indications of superiors.\" The result, he reported, was \"the shallowness of their emotional expression, the lack of empathy and inability to relate normally to others in so many contexts, the general sense of their being 'out of touch' etc.\"For a long time, tensions within the Vatican prevented Maciel and his regime being disciplined. His supporters ranged from George Weigel, a rightwing US catholic, to Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican's secretary of state, a conservative who as papal nuncio in Chile for a decade from 1977, when he did an efficient job in bringing the Holy See closer to the Pinochet dictatorship.In the end, after the real situation in the organisation became public, the pope approved an order in 2006 telling Maciel to retreat into \"penitence and prayer, relinquishing any form of public ministry\". He was lucky that his age was taken as a reason for him not being tried in an ecclesiastical court.Now the five bishops have the job of trying to clean up after Maciel. While Central America catches Rome's attention thought should be given to some fitting recognition for Archbishop Oscar Romero, slaughtered in 1980, and to the six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter who were murdered in November 1989. All nine were butchered by US-trained assassins in San Salvador.And, though it's not strictly part of his Central American brief, Bishop Watti should find time to ask the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Cardinal Oscar Rodr\u00edguez Maradiaga, how he came to side with a foreign engineered coup against Manuel Zelaya, the elected and legitimate president of Honduras, after he initially seemed to support him. The cardinal asked him not to return from the exile into which some local and US businessmen had flung him. The cleric aligned himself with the impostor Roberto Micheletti and his overseas backers. Micheletti's choice as \"foreign minister\" an aged banker Enrique Ortez Colindres had the novel diplomatic idea of addressing President Barack Obama with a racial slur and saying he \"knows nothing about anything\" on television. The cardinal once had high hopes of being elected. His gaffe over Micheletti will have shrivelled them.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Christianity", "Mexico", "Honduras", "Americas"], "title": "Confronting the Legion of Christ in Mexico | Hugh O'Shaughnessy"},{"date": "2009-09-16T08:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Whichever way you cut it, the Mexican tourism industry has been battling stiff odds lately: the depressed economy, the drug war, swine flu ... it all amounted to a perfect storm of bad business throughout a disastrous month of May, during which the lusty metropolis of Mexico City took on the pallor of the ghost town, with hotels and tour operators hit by a wave of cancellations. From the sound of things, all Mexico needed was a particularly bad hurricane season (still a possibility) to rub salt into its wounds, and the pitiful scenario would be complete.So how was the country actually handling its multifaceted crisis? To find out, I planned a road trip taking in town, country and coast, starting out and concluding in Guadalajara, the country's second-largest city. News of President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's 1.2bn peso \"Vive M\u00e9xico\" tourism campaign, with its promise of discounts, was \u2013 for the traveller at least \u2013 encouraging, and a cursory surf of the web revealed a spate of special offers and slashed rates: \"Get up to 70% off!\" promised Expedia; \"Pay half price for paradise\" announced Travelocity. Evidently, there was value to be had in the ether, but how would things feel on the ground?My week began at Caf\u00e9 Madrid on Avenida Juarez, downtown Guadalajara. I hadn't given even half a thought to the swine flu until an old man in a grey suit, who had been breakfasting next to me, unloaded the contents of his nose into a napkin, which the waitress casually picked up and discarded, before serving coffee elsewhere. For an instant, my sinuses started to twitch, sensing the inevitable onslaught of H1N1 germs ... which never arrived. Clearly, the sane approach was to rebuff the flu with nonchalance, so I breezed into the mid-morning along the city's main corridor of cultural buildings, the Plaza Tapat\u00eda.At the eastern end of the plaza is the Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, a former hospice built at the start of the 19th century. It's now an arts centre, with an unmissable series of murals by Jos\u00e9 Clemente Orozco. Painted on to the roof and walls of the capilla mayor, a sepulchral building at the heart of the complex, are gangs of masked demons, people crushed by machines, a hellish conquistador on a two-headed horse and other stark representations of Mexico's brutal past. In the middle of the structure, on the central dome, there's the unforgettable image of a man on fire, floating in a sea of infernal lava, giving the disorientating impression we're looking heavenwards into the flames of damnation. I cooled off with some bottled water.The molten intensity of Orozco's work turned out to be a preparation \u2013 of sorts \u2013 for the supremely relaxing Rio Caliente Hot Springs Spa, an hour west of the city off the Avenida Vallarta, not far from Mount Tequila. Bordered by a literally steaming \"hot river\", the property is set into the sides of an ancient volcanic crater in Primavera Forest National Park (Guadalajara's \"lungs\"), and attracts an international assortment of health-seekers, rat-race-refugees and nature-lovers. The resort's English owner-manager, Caroline Durston, first arrived in Guadalajara in the late 60s. After five years teaching English, followed by a six-month sideline drawing up astrological charts for Mexican government officials (which ended when \"they began to send for me privately, in the middle of the night, in armoured cars\"), she was asked to run Rio Caliente full-time, and has never left. In a gesture of defiance against the threat of H1N1, Durston has prominently displayed the photoshopped image of an airborne piglet riding a micro-scooter Evel Knievel-style, captioned \"The swine flew\".Rio Caliente is likely to appeal to those who would never normally consider a spa holiday. The price includes three vegetarian meals a day in a communal dining room that feels like a tree house: exotically coloured birds (the dazzling Vermillion Flycatcher; the bright orange Bullock's Oriole; the Golden Vireo) frequent eye-level branches almost within touching distance while you eat. Since it's all about the hot water at Rio Caliente, guests tend to spend a lot of time in the naturally heated swimming pools and plunge pools, as well as the subterranean steam room, built over an aquifer, in a variation on the temazcal sweat lodge tradition practised in the Americas for around 4,500 years. Eucalyptus leaves are laid over hot rocks, and the therapeutic effects of a brief, pore-draining session are almost immediately self-evident.Make no mistake \u2013 this is not a spa aimed at anyone who feels bereft without all the mod cons. The rooms don't have TVs or telephones, and there are some signs of wear around the edges, but if you want to get close to nature (guided forest hikes for all levels of fitness can be arranged) and soak up some time-tested volcanic goodness, Rio Caliente is well worth the price of admission: between $135-147 (\u00a380-90) per night.For around the same amount \u2013 one of the special offers introduced to boost business during the current slump \u2013 you can book a stay at the altogether more extravagant Grand Bay Hotel at Isla Navidad Resort in Manzanillo on the Pacific coast, four hours due south of Guadalajara on the fast-moving toll road. It rises up from its natural surroundings \u2013 a large, gated, semi-tropical peninsula \u2013 with little concession to modesty. If future archeologists were to analyse its ruins, they might conclude it was no mere hotel, but a self-contained citystate whose inhabitants worshipped the gods of golf, jet-skiing and agave-based spirits.Opened in 1997, the hotel has taken some of its cues from Vegas. The lobby leads to a spectacularly appointed bar (with ocean and lagoon views) via a white grand piano; some of the rooms have square pillars that swivel to reveal televisions; and there's a bar stocking 204 different types of tequila. If you like the sound of six Gran Turismo stars (a Mexican government classification) and four American Automobile Association diamonds, then there's definitely value to be had until the economy rights itself and the usual tariffs for luxury and exclusivity are restored.The return to Guadalajara, past the spectacular Colima volcano (the most active in Mexico), delivered a couple of days in one of the city's most likable, attractive and mellow areas, Tlaquepaque. Known for some time by interior designers as a place to source arts and crafts, the colonial neighbourhood has really come into its own over the past decade, and boasts a handful of modestly priced boutique hotels, including the excellent Quinta Don Jose.Music is played everywhere in Tlaquepaque, but it's best enjoyed at El Parian, a colonnaded square of bars surrounding a bandstand, where roving mariachi will offer to sell you a song or two over beers and snacks. Here, Guadalajara's nightly summer thunder rumbles away behind happy-sad harmonies and pristine blasts of silver trumpet \u2013 a commingling of sounds that mixes the joyful with the ominous, and fittingly underscores the tension between the best and worst of scenarios for Mexico's tourism industry.There are more than 100 flights a week from London to Guadalajara, across 15 airlines, but all involve at least one stop. Mexicana offers good value online via Chicago.Holiday Autos car rental at Guadalajara airport and downtown.AccommodationRio Caliente, Bosca Primavera, Jalisco. Booking contact in the US: +1 650 615 9543. Nightly rates from $135 (\u00a383) per personGrand Bay Hotel, Circuito de los Marinos S/N, Fraccionamiento Isla Navidad Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico 28830; +52 31 4331 0500. Special rates from $149.20 (\u00a391) per night are available online.Quinta Don Jose Hotel, Calle Reforma No 139 Tlaquepaque; +52 33 3635 7522. Rates from $75 (\u00a346) single to $150 (\u00a391) master suite, per night.VisitingCafe Madrid, Av Juarez 264, Between Corona and 16 de Septiembre, downtown; +52 33 3614 9504.Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, Calle Caba\u00f1as 8, Plaza Tapatia, Colonia Centro; +52 33 3668 1640.In the Yucatan, Hotel Hacienda Merida, a converted colonial building dating back to 1840, has a special rate of $99 (\u00a360) until the end of October.The mellow fishing village of Sayluita on the Pacific Coast of Nayarit is offering up to 50% discounts at a variety of properties. Hacienda Jalisco, in the throwback mountain village of San Sebastian del Oeste (Jalisco), has no electricity, just oil lamps and candles. The guest list has included Richard Burton and Peter O' Toole. Rooms start at just $55. ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Budget travel", "Mexico City holidays", "Swine flu", "Spa breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Mexico after swine flu: 'half price for paradise'"},{"date": "2009-09-07T09:54:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Police have raided Sony Music's offices in Mexico City, seizing albums, master recordings and cover art for one of Latin music's biggest stars.Mexico's public ministry and federal police were acting on a court order concerning ranchera singer Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez. A two-time Latin Grammy winner, Fern\u00e1ndez was signed to Sony Music from 1998 to 2008 but left last year for Universal. Sony has gone ahead with plans to release an album of unreleased material, called Diferente, which Fern\u00e1ndez alleges they have no right to do.\"Sony assumed that they could take tracks that weren't part of previous albums and release them as an eighth album, as if it were new material, over which they had rights,\" Jose Luis Caballero, Fern\u00e1ndez's attorney, told Billboard. \"It's perfectly clear that the company's contract is limited to seven albums.\"Caballero said that they had issued a cease and desist letter two weeks ago and after this was ignored, sought a search and seizure order. Police reportedly seized 6,397 Fern\u00e1ndez CDs, masters of unreleased music, and art for Diferente.Sony Music issued a statement saying it was \"surprised and disappointed\" by the raid, calling the recordings \"totally authorised\". \"We trust that the Mexican courts will confirm our rights as soon as possible,\" a spokesperson said.Fern\u00e1ndez has sold more than 15m records worldwide.", "tags": ["World music", "Music", "Culture", "Sony", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Sony Mexico raided for 'unauthorised' Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez material"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Not before time The Holy See, with scapel in hand, is turning to Mexico and Central America where it needs to carry out urgent and comprehensive surgery.Last week Rome announced the membership of the five-man committee charged with a worldwide investigation of the the congregation of the Legionaires of Christ, a group founded by the Mexican cleric Marcial Maciel Degollado who died last year at the age of 88 in an odour of something short of sanctity. As far as Maciel was concerned a new form of Legionaires' Disease consisted of a crushing diet of authoritarianism imposed by a priest who had a daughter of 20 from a long-term relationship with a lover and who was protected by some of the most senior people in the Vatican.Founded in 1941, the congregation has grown rapidly, becoming a source of scandal and embarrassment. In 1970 it had 68 priests in its ranks. Today it has more than eleven times that number, not to speak of 2,500 men studying to be priests and 65,000 lay members in its offshoot Regnum Christi, the Kingdom of Christ. Members include two Dubliners called Farrell who have risen high. Kevin is now in the US as bishop of Dallas and the other, Brian, incredible as it might appear, is in the Vatican as secretary of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. Long ago the council had been distinguished by the presence of such theological giants such as the Jesuit Cardinal Bea, the Dominican Cardinal Hamer and the Archbishop of Utrecht Cardinal Willibrands, none of whom, happily, was accused of any connection to the Legionaires.Maciel's followers enjoy their greatest influence in Central America. One of the investigative committee, Bishop Ricardo Watti of the scruffy Mexican town of Tepic, has the biggest job, that of sorting out 44 of the Legionaries' houses and more than 115 priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood in Mexico and neighbouring countries to the south.The four others are charged with the task in the US and Canada; in Italy and Asia (from Israel to South Korea); in South America and in the rest of Europe.Thomas Berg, a US priest who recently quit the organisation, aired his views this month on the excellent chiesa.espresso.repubblica.it website.\"Legionary seminarians\" he said, \"are essentially trained to suspend reason in their obedience and to seek a total internal conformity with all the norms, and to withstand any internal impulse to examine or critique the norms or the indications of superiors.\" The result, he reported, was \"the shallowness of their emotional expression, the lack of empathy and inability to relate normally to others in so many contexts, the general sense of their being 'out of touch' etc.\"For a long time, tensions within the Vatican prevented Maciel and his regime being disciplined. His supporters ranged from George Weigel, a rightwing US catholic, to Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican's secretary of state, a conservative who as papal nuncio in Chile for a decade from 1977, when he did an efficient job in bringing the Holy See closer to the Pinochet dictatorship.In the end, after the real situation in the organisation became public, the pope approved an order in 2006 telling Maciel to retreat into \"penitence and prayer, relinquishing any form of public ministry\". He was lucky that his age was taken as a reason for him not being tried in an ecclesiastical court.Now the five bishops have the job of trying to clean up after Maciel. While Central America catches Rome's attention thought should be given to some fitting recognition for Archbishop Oscar Romero, slaughtered in 1980, and to the six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter who were murdered in November 1989. All nine were butchered by US-trained assassins in San Salvador.And, though it's not strictly part of his Central American brief, Bishop Watti should find time to ask the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Cardinal Oscar Rodr\u00edguez Maradiaga, how he came to side with a foreign engineered coup against Manuel Zelaya, the elected and legitimate president of Honduras, after he initially seemed to support him. The cardinal asked him not to return from the exile into which some local and US businessmen had flung him. The cleric aligned himself with the impostor Roberto Micheletti and his overseas backers. Micheletti's choice as \"foreign minister\" an aged banker Enrique Ortez Colindres had the novel diplomatic idea of addressing President Barack Obama with a racial slur and saying he \"knows nothing about anything\" on television. The cardinal once had high hopes of being elected. His gaffe over Micheletti will have shrivelled them.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Christianity", "Mexico", "Honduras", "Americas"], "title": "Confronting the Legion of Christ in Mexico | Hugh O'Shaughnessy"},{"date": "2009-09-16T08:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Whichever way you cut it, the Mexican tourism industry has been battling stiff odds lately: the depressed economy, the drug war, swine flu ... it all amounted to a perfect storm of bad business throughout a disastrous month of May, during which the lusty metropolis of Mexico City took on the pallor of the ghost town, with hotels and tour operators hit by a wave of cancellations. From the sound of things, all Mexico needed was a particularly bad hurricane season (still a possibility) to rub salt into its wounds, and the pitiful scenario would be complete.So how was the country actually handling its multifaceted crisis? To find out, I planned a road trip taking in town, country and coast, starting out and concluding in Guadalajara, the country's second-largest city. News of President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's 1.2bn peso \"Vive M\u00e9xico\" tourism campaign, with its promise of discounts, was \u2013 for the traveller at least \u2013 encouraging, and a cursory surf of the web revealed a spate of special offers and slashed rates: \"Get up to 70% off!\" promised Expedia; \"Pay half price for paradise\" announced Travelocity. Evidently, there was value to be had in the ether, but how would things feel on the ground?My week began at Caf\u00e9 Madrid on Avenida Juarez, downtown Guadalajara. I hadn't given even half a thought to the swine flu until an old man in a grey suit, who had been breakfasting next to me, unloaded the contents of his nose into a napkin, which the waitress casually picked up and discarded, before serving coffee elsewhere. For an instant, my sinuses started to twitch, sensing the inevitable onslaught of H1N1 germs ... which never arrived. Clearly, the sane approach was to rebuff the flu with nonchalance, so I breezed into the mid-morning along the city's main corridor of cultural buildings, the Plaza Tapat\u00eda.At the eastern end of the plaza is the Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, a former hospice built at the start of the 19th century. It's now an arts centre, with an unmissable series of murals by Jos\u00e9 Clemente Orozco. Painted on to the roof and walls of the capilla mayor, a sepulchral building at the heart of the complex, are gangs of masked demons, people crushed by machines, a hellish conquistador on a two-headed horse and other stark representations of Mexico's brutal past. In the middle of the structure, on the central dome, there's the unforgettable image of a man on fire, floating in a sea of infernal lava, giving the disorientating impression we're looking heavenwards into the flames of damnation. I cooled off with some bottled water.The molten intensity of Orozco's work turned out to be a preparation \u2013 of sorts \u2013 for the supremely relaxing Rio Caliente Hot Springs Spa, an hour west of the city off the Avenida Vallarta, not far from Mount Tequila. Bordered by a literally steaming \"hot river\", the property is set into the sides of an ancient volcanic crater in Primavera Forest National Park (Guadalajara's \"lungs\"), and attracts an international assortment of health-seekers, rat-race-refugees and nature-lovers. The resort's English owner-manager, Caroline Durston, first arrived in Guadalajara in the late 60s. After five years teaching English, followed by a six-month sideline drawing up astrological charts for Mexican government officials (which ended when \"they began to send for me privately, in the middle of the night, in armoured cars\"), she was asked to run Rio Caliente full-time, and has never left. In a gesture of defiance against the threat of H1N1, Durston has prominently displayed the photoshopped image of an airborne piglet riding a micro-scooter Evel Knievel-style, captioned \"The swine flew\".Rio Caliente is likely to appeal to those who would never normally consider a spa holiday. The price includes three vegetarian meals a day in a communal dining room that feels like a tree house: exotically coloured birds (the dazzling Vermillion Flycatcher; the bright orange Bullock's Oriole; the Golden Vireo) frequent eye-level branches almost within touching distance while you eat. Since it's all about the hot water at Rio Caliente, guests tend to spend a lot of time in the naturally heated swimming pools and plunge pools, as well as the subterranean steam room, built over an aquifer, in a variation on the temazcal sweat lodge tradition practised in the Americas for around 4,500 years. Eucalyptus leaves are laid over hot rocks, and the therapeutic effects of a brief, pore-draining session are almost immediately self-evident.Make no mistake \u2013 this is not a spa aimed at anyone who feels bereft without all the mod cons. The rooms don't have TVs or telephones, and there are some signs of wear around the edges, but if you want to get close to nature (guided forest hikes for all levels of fitness can be arranged) and soak up some time-tested volcanic goodness, Rio Caliente is well worth the price of admission: between $135-147 (\u00a380-90) per night.For around the same amount \u2013 one of the special offers introduced to boost business during the current slump \u2013 you can book a stay at the altogether more extravagant Grand Bay Hotel at Isla Navidad Resort in Manzanillo on the Pacific coast, four hours due south of Guadalajara on the fast-moving toll road. It rises up from its natural surroundings \u2013 a large, gated, semi-tropical peninsula \u2013 with little concession to modesty. If future archeologists were to analyse its ruins, they might conclude it was no mere hotel, but a self-contained citystate whose inhabitants worshipped the gods of golf, jet-skiing and agave-based spirits.Opened in 1997, the hotel has taken some of its cues from Vegas. The lobby leads to a spectacularly appointed bar (with ocean and lagoon views) via a white grand piano; some of the rooms have square pillars that swivel to reveal televisions; and there's a bar stocking 204 different types of tequila. If you like the sound of six Gran Turismo stars (a Mexican government classification) and four American Automobile Association diamonds, then there's definitely value to be had until the economy rights itself and the usual tariffs for luxury and exclusivity are restored.The return to Guadalajara, past the spectacular Colima volcano (the most active in Mexico), delivered a couple of days in one of the city's most likable, attractive and mellow areas, Tlaquepaque. Known for some time by interior designers as a place to source arts and crafts, the colonial neighbourhood has really come into its own over the past decade, and boasts a handful of modestly priced boutique hotels, including the excellent Quinta Don Jose.Music is played everywhere in Tlaquepaque, but it's best enjoyed at El Parian, a colonnaded square of bars surrounding a bandstand, where roving mariachi will offer to sell you a song or two over beers and snacks. Here, Guadalajara's nightly summer thunder rumbles away behind happy-sad harmonies and pristine blasts of silver trumpet \u2013 a commingling of sounds that mixes the joyful with the ominous, and fittingly underscores the tension between the best and worst of scenarios for Mexico's tourism industry.There are more than 100 flights a week from London to Guadalajara, across 15 airlines, but all involve at least one stop. Mexicana offers good value online via Chicago.Holiday Autos car rental at Guadalajara airport and downtown.AccommodationRio Caliente, Bosca Primavera, Jalisco. Booking contact in the US: +1 650 615 9543. Nightly rates from $135 (\u00a383) per personGrand Bay Hotel, Circuito de los Marinos S/N, Fraccionamiento Isla Navidad Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico 28830; +52 31 4331 0500. Special rates from $149.20 (\u00a391) per night are available online.Quinta Don Jose Hotel, Calle Reforma No 139 Tlaquepaque; +52 33 3635 7522. Rates from $75 (\u00a346) single to $150 (\u00a391) master suite, per night.VisitingCafe Madrid, Av Juarez 264, Between Corona and 16 de Septiembre, downtown; +52 33 3614 9504.Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, Calle Caba\u00f1as 8, Plaza Tapatia, Colonia Centro; +52 33 3668 1640.In the Yucatan, Hotel Hacienda Merida, a converted colonial building dating back to 1840, has a special rate of $99 (\u00a360) until the end of October.The mellow fishing village of Sayluita on the Pacific Coast of Nayarit is offering up to 50% discounts at a variety of properties. Hacienda Jalisco, in the throwback mountain village of San Sebastian del Oeste (Jalisco), has no electricity, just oil lamps and candles. The guest list has included Richard Burton and Peter O' Toole. Rooms start at just $55. ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Budget travel", "Mexico City holidays", "Swine flu", "Spa breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Mexico after swine flu: 'half price for paradise'"},{"date": "2009-09-07T09:54:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Police have raided Sony Music's offices in Mexico City, seizing albums, master recordings and cover art for one of Latin music's biggest stars.Mexico's public ministry and federal police were acting on a court order concerning ranchera singer Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez. A two-time Latin Grammy winner, Fern\u00e1ndez was signed to Sony Music from 1998 to 2008 but left last year for Universal. Sony has gone ahead with plans to release an album of unreleased material, called Diferente, which Fern\u00e1ndez alleges they have no right to do.\"Sony assumed that they could take tracks that weren't part of previous albums and release them as an eighth album, as if it were new material, over which they had rights,\" Jose Luis Caballero, Fern\u00e1ndez's attorney, told Billboard. \"It's perfectly clear that the company's contract is limited to seven albums.\"Caballero said that they had issued a cease and desist letter two weeks ago and after this was ignored, sought a search and seizure order. Police reportedly seized 6,397 Fern\u00e1ndez CDs, masters of unreleased music, and art for Diferente.Sony Music issued a statement saying it was \"surprised and disappointed\" by the raid, calling the recordings \"totally authorised\". \"We trust that the Mexican courts will confirm our rights as soon as possible,\" a spokesperson said.Fern\u00e1ndez has sold more than 15m records worldwide.", "tags": ["World music", "Music", "Culture", "Sony", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Sony Mexico raided for 'unauthorised' Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez material"},{"date": "2009-09-10T00:30:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The man who hijacked a passenger plane in Mexico yesterday claimed to be on a divine mission, officials said, after the plane's crew and 104 passengers were freed unhurt. The Aeromexico flight was seized when it landed after a flight from the resort city of Canc\u00fan. The hijacker, Jos\u00e9 Mar Flores, 44, reportedly told police that yesterday's date, 9/9/09, is the number 666 turned upside down. Flores used a fake bomb to hijack the plane, then ordered the pilot to circle Mexico City seven times. He said he wanted to warn Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f2n, of an impending earthquake.  ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Hijacker of plane in Mexico 'wanted to warn president of earthquake'"},{"date": "2009-07-28T20:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month, President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced that Mexico was at a crossroads: the country's drug cartels had grown so powerful that they now posed a threat to future of Mexican democracy. As if to underscore his point, the country was last week gripped by a fresh wave of brutal violence, as heavily-armed gunmen laid siege to police stations across Calder\u00f3n's home state, left a dozen federal agents dead by the side of a mountain highway and assassinated the mayor of a northern ranching town.The cartels' brazen attacks point to their evolution from ragged criminal collectives into de facto military organisations. Better funded, better trained and far more heavily armed than the police officers attempting to contain them, they now more closely resemble Colombia's Farc rebels than any conventional street gang.Like the Farc, the cartels are seeking to control neighbourhoods and even entire regions. Oversized banners proclaiming the gangs' dominance are common sights in public spaces across the country, and cartel leaders' orders can drive police chiefs from office or help propel sympathetic politicians to electoral victory. Amid last week's violence, one cartel capo even tried to dictate terms for a ceasefire to the federal government. His offer was rebuffed but stood as further testimony to the cartels' increasing well-founded confidence.So, could Mexico be on the brink of a Colombia-style conflagration? A descent into open conflict is no longer unthinkable. Around 11,000 people have died since the government started pushing back against the drug cartels, and reports from the Rand Corporation and the Pentagon recently concluded that if left unchecked, the spiralling violence could conceivably lead to the collapse of the Mexican state.Still, such an outcome remains highly unlikely. Unlike Colombia's rebels, Mexico's drug gangs are less interested in overthrowing the government than in maximising the profits from their drug-running and human-trafficking operations. A more pressing concern is that in striving to crush the cartels, Calder\u00f3n might himself do lasting damage to Mexican society. Borrowing from the playbook of his Colombian counterpart, the Mexican leader has taken a tough line in the battle against the drug gangs, treating the violence as an insurgency rather than a crime-wave and ordering tens of thousands of federal troops onto the streets to restore order. That strategy \u2013 facilitated by hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid \u2013 has met with some success. The army has made tens of thousands of arrests and seized tons of cocaine and other drugs. But Calder\u00f3n's security forces are nowhere near delivering a knockout blow to the drug runners. A recent surge of 10,000 troops failed to stem violence in Ciudad Juarez, and there's little indication that the 5,000 extra soldiers deployed in response to last week's violence will meet with much more success. Each high-level arrest sparks a new round of retaliatory attacks and infighting as the cartels scramble for position, but does little to disrupt the cartels' core businesses. Mexico's $25bn-a-year drug-running and human-trafficking industries continue unabated. And there are serious downsides to Calder\u00f3n's strong-arm approach. Battling savage, shadowy drug gangs has brought out the worst in the Mexican military, who have swiftly gained a reputation for brutality and stand accused of abuses ranging from rape and torture to extrajudicial killings and illegal detentions. Since the armed forces are essentially self-regulating, troops commit such acts with virtual impunity. A recent Human Rights Watch report documented dozens of incidents of abuse but failed to find a single case in which military investigators had obtained a conviction. In any case, while sending in federal troops plays well with Mexican voters, it's hardly a long-term solution. By sidelining local police forces and judiciaries, Calder\u00f3n is allowing Mexico's regional law-enforcement infrastructure to continue to atrophy, making the country ever-more dependent on the military to keep the cartels in check. With the armed forces only proving able to fight the drug gangs to a jittery stalemate, Calder\u00f3n's strategy appears to be paving the way for a troubling long-term militarisation of Mexican society. Disappointingly, Washington has so far endorsed Calder\u00f3n's approach. Under the Merida Initiative, hundreds of millions of dollars in US aid are being shipped south to buy bigger guns and high-tech toys for the federal security forces.Virtually nothing, however, is being spent on cleaning up or strengthening local law enforcement. In fact, 90% of Mexico's police forces \u2013 some 325,000 officers \u2013 won't receive a dime's worth of equipment or training under current aid plans. Worse, the human-rights standards upon which the aid was originally contingent have been substantially diluted \u2013 and it's far from clear whether even those watered-down guidelines will actually be enforced in any meaningful way.The US \u2013 whose drug and immigration policies created the markets so successfully exploited by Mexico's cartels, and whose arms sellers supply nine out of 10 of the weapons used by their gunmen \u2013 can't simply stand by while her southern neighbour falls to pieces. But neither should she seek to tackle the crime wave with a carbon-copy of Plan Colombia.Putting Mexico back on track will require the US to take a more holistic approach, curbing her own appetite for drugs while seeking to strengthen and modernise her neighbour's local law-enforcement infrastructure. Despite Calder\u00f3n's tough-man swagger, relying on military force alone will only make matters worse.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Drugs trade", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico on the brink | Ben Whitford"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Not before time The Holy See, with scapel in hand, is turning to Mexico and Central America where it needs to carry out urgent and comprehensive surgery.Last week Rome announced the membership of the five-man committee charged with a worldwide investigation of the the congregation of the Legionaires of Christ, a group founded by the Mexican cleric Marcial Maciel Degollado who died last year at the age of 88 in an odour of something short of sanctity. As far as Maciel was concerned a new form of Legionaires' Disease consisted of a crushing diet of authoritarianism imposed by a priest who had a daughter of 20 from a long-term relationship with a lover and who was protected by some of the most senior people in the Vatican.Founded in 1941, the congregation has grown rapidly, becoming a source of scandal and embarrassment. In 1970 it had 68 priests in its ranks. Today it has more than eleven times that number, not to speak of 2,500 men studying to be priests and 65,000 lay members in its offshoot Regnum Christi, the Kingdom of Christ. Members include two Dubliners called Farrell who have risen high. Kevin is now in the US as bishop of Dallas and the other, Brian, incredible as it might appear, is in the Vatican as secretary of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity. Long ago the council had been distinguished by the presence of such theological giants such as the Jesuit Cardinal Bea, the Dominican Cardinal Hamer and the Archbishop of Utrecht Cardinal Willibrands, none of whom, happily, was accused of any connection to the Legionaires.Maciel's followers enjoy their greatest influence in Central America. One of the investigative committee, Bishop Ricardo Watti of the scruffy Mexican town of Tepic, has the biggest job, that of sorting out 44 of the Legionaries' houses and more than 115 priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood in Mexico and neighbouring countries to the south.The four others are charged with the task in the US and Canada; in Italy and Asia (from Israel to South Korea); in South America and in the rest of Europe.Thomas Berg, a US priest who recently quit the organisation, aired his views this month on the excellent chiesa.espresso.repubblica.it website.\"Legionary seminarians\" he said, \"are essentially trained to suspend reason in their obedience and to seek a total internal conformity with all the norms, and to withstand any internal impulse to examine or critique the norms or the indications of superiors.\" The result, he reported, was \"the shallowness of their emotional expression, the lack of empathy and inability to relate normally to others in so many contexts, the general sense of their being 'out of touch' etc.\"For a long time, tensions within the Vatican prevented Maciel and his regime being disciplined. His supporters ranged from George Weigel, a rightwing US catholic, to Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican's secretary of state, a conservative who as papal nuncio in Chile for a decade from 1977, when he did an efficient job in bringing the Holy See closer to the Pinochet dictatorship.In the end, after the real situation in the organisation became public, the pope approved an order in 2006 telling Maciel to retreat into \"penitence and prayer, relinquishing any form of public ministry\". He was lucky that his age was taken as a reason for him not being tried in an ecclesiastical court.Now the five bishops have the job of trying to clean up after Maciel. While Central America catches Rome's attention thought should be given to some fitting recognition for Archbishop Oscar Romero, slaughtered in 1980, and to the six Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter who were murdered in November 1989. All nine were butchered by US-trained assassins in San Salvador.And, though it's not strictly part of his Central American brief, Bishop Watti should find time to ask the Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Cardinal Oscar Rodr\u00edguez Maradiaga, how he came to side with a foreign engineered coup against Manuel Zelaya, the elected and legitimate president of Honduras, after he initially seemed to support him. The cardinal asked him not to return from the exile into which some local and US businessmen had flung him. The cleric aligned himself with the impostor Roberto Micheletti and his overseas backers. Micheletti's choice as \"foreign minister\" an aged banker Enrique Ortez Colindres had the novel diplomatic idea of addressing President Barack Obama with a racial slur and saying he \"knows nothing about anything\" on television. The cardinal once had high hopes of being elected. His gaffe over Micheletti will have shrivelled them.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Christianity", "Mexico", "Honduras", "Americas"], "title": "Confronting the Legion of Christ in Mexico | Hugh O'Shaughnessy"},{"date": "2009-09-16T08:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Whichever way you cut it, the Mexican tourism industry has been battling stiff odds lately: the depressed economy, the drug war, swine flu ... it all amounted to a perfect storm of bad business throughout a disastrous month of May, during which the lusty metropolis of Mexico City took on the pallor of the ghost town, with hotels and tour operators hit by a wave of cancellations. From the sound of things, all Mexico needed was a particularly bad hurricane season (still a possibility) to rub salt into its wounds, and the pitiful scenario would be complete.So how was the country actually handling its multifaceted crisis? To find out, I planned a road trip taking in town, country and coast, starting out and concluding in Guadalajara, the country's second-largest city. News of President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's 1.2bn peso \"Vive M\u00e9xico\" tourism campaign, with its promise of discounts, was \u2013 for the traveller at least \u2013 encouraging, and a cursory surf of the web revealed a spate of special offers and slashed rates: \"Get up to 70% off!\" promised Expedia; \"Pay half price for paradise\" announced Travelocity. Evidently, there was value to be had in the ether, but how would things feel on the ground?My week began at Caf\u00e9 Madrid on Avenida Juarez, downtown Guadalajara. I hadn't given even half a thought to the swine flu until an old man in a grey suit, who had been breakfasting next to me, unloaded the contents of his nose into a napkin, which the waitress casually picked up and discarded, before serving coffee elsewhere. For an instant, my sinuses started to twitch, sensing the inevitable onslaught of H1N1 germs ... which never arrived. Clearly, the sane approach was to rebuff the flu with nonchalance, so I breezed into the mid-morning along the city's main corridor of cultural buildings, the Plaza Tapat\u00eda.At the eastern end of the plaza is the Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, a former hospice built at the start of the 19th century. It's now an arts centre, with an unmissable series of murals by Jos\u00e9 Clemente Orozco. Painted on to the roof and walls of the capilla mayor, a sepulchral building at the heart of the complex, are gangs of masked demons, people crushed by machines, a hellish conquistador on a two-headed horse and other stark representations of Mexico's brutal past. In the middle of the structure, on the central dome, there's the unforgettable image of a man on fire, floating in a sea of infernal lava, giving the disorientating impression we're looking heavenwards into the flames of damnation. I cooled off with some bottled water.The molten intensity of Orozco's work turned out to be a preparation \u2013 of sorts \u2013 for the supremely relaxing Rio Caliente Hot Springs Spa, an hour west of the city off the Avenida Vallarta, not far from Mount Tequila. Bordered by a literally steaming \"hot river\", the property is set into the sides of an ancient volcanic crater in Primavera Forest National Park (Guadalajara's \"lungs\"), and attracts an international assortment of health-seekers, rat-race-refugees and nature-lovers. The resort's English owner-manager, Caroline Durston, first arrived in Guadalajara in the late 60s. After five years teaching English, followed by a six-month sideline drawing up astrological charts for Mexican government officials (which ended when \"they began to send for me privately, in the middle of the night, in armoured cars\"), she was asked to run Rio Caliente full-time, and has never left. In a gesture of defiance against the threat of H1N1, Durston has prominently displayed the photoshopped image of an airborne piglet riding a micro-scooter Evel Knievel-style, captioned \"The swine flew\".Rio Caliente is likely to appeal to those who would never normally consider a spa holiday. The price includes three vegetarian meals a day in a communal dining room that feels like a tree house: exotically coloured birds (the dazzling Vermillion Flycatcher; the bright orange Bullock's Oriole; the Golden Vireo) frequent eye-level branches almost within touching distance while you eat. Since it's all about the hot water at Rio Caliente, guests tend to spend a lot of time in the naturally heated swimming pools and plunge pools, as well as the subterranean steam room, built over an aquifer, in a variation on the temazcal sweat lodge tradition practised in the Americas for around 4,500 years. Eucalyptus leaves are laid over hot rocks, and the therapeutic effects of a brief, pore-draining session are almost immediately self-evident.Make no mistake \u2013 this is not a spa aimed at anyone who feels bereft without all the mod cons. The rooms don't have TVs or telephones, and there are some signs of wear around the edges, but if you want to get close to nature (guided forest hikes for all levels of fitness can be arranged) and soak up some time-tested volcanic goodness, Rio Caliente is well worth the price of admission: between $135-147 (\u00a380-90) per night.For around the same amount \u2013 one of the special offers introduced to boost business during the current slump \u2013 you can book a stay at the altogether more extravagant Grand Bay Hotel at Isla Navidad Resort in Manzanillo on the Pacific coast, four hours due south of Guadalajara on the fast-moving toll road. It rises up from its natural surroundings \u2013 a large, gated, semi-tropical peninsula \u2013 with little concession to modesty. If future archeologists were to analyse its ruins, they might conclude it was no mere hotel, but a self-contained citystate whose inhabitants worshipped the gods of golf, jet-skiing and agave-based spirits.Opened in 1997, the hotel has taken some of its cues from Vegas. The lobby leads to a spectacularly appointed bar (with ocean and lagoon views) via a white grand piano; some of the rooms have square pillars that swivel to reveal televisions; and there's a bar stocking 204 different types of tequila. If you like the sound of six Gran Turismo stars (a Mexican government classification) and four American Automobile Association diamonds, then there's definitely value to be had until the economy rights itself and the usual tariffs for luxury and exclusivity are restored.The return to Guadalajara, past the spectacular Colima volcano (the most active in Mexico), delivered a couple of days in one of the city's most likable, attractive and mellow areas, Tlaquepaque. Known for some time by interior designers as a place to source arts and crafts, the colonial neighbourhood has really come into its own over the past decade, and boasts a handful of modestly priced boutique hotels, including the excellent Quinta Don Jose.Music is played everywhere in Tlaquepaque, but it's best enjoyed at El Parian, a colonnaded square of bars surrounding a bandstand, where roving mariachi will offer to sell you a song or two over beers and snacks. Here, Guadalajara's nightly summer thunder rumbles away behind happy-sad harmonies and pristine blasts of silver trumpet \u2013 a commingling of sounds that mixes the joyful with the ominous, and fittingly underscores the tension between the best and worst of scenarios for Mexico's tourism industry.There are more than 100 flights a week from London to Guadalajara, across 15 airlines, but all involve at least one stop. Mexicana offers good value online via Chicago.Holiday Autos car rental at Guadalajara airport and downtown.AccommodationRio Caliente, Bosca Primavera, Jalisco. Booking contact in the US: +1 650 615 9543. Nightly rates from $135 (\u00a383) per personGrand Bay Hotel, Circuito de los Marinos S/N, Fraccionamiento Isla Navidad Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico 28830; +52 31 4331 0500. Special rates from $149.20 (\u00a391) per night are available online.Quinta Don Jose Hotel, Calle Reforma No 139 Tlaquepaque; +52 33 3635 7522. Rates from $75 (\u00a346) single to $150 (\u00a391) master suite, per night.VisitingCafe Madrid, Av Juarez 264, Between Corona and 16 de Septiembre, downtown; +52 33 3614 9504.Instituto Cultural Caba\u00f1as, Calle Caba\u00f1as 8, Plaza Tapatia, Colonia Centro; +52 33 3668 1640.In the Yucatan, Hotel Hacienda Merida, a converted colonial building dating back to 1840, has a special rate of $99 (\u00a360) until the end of October.The mellow fishing village of Sayluita on the Pacific Coast of Nayarit is offering up to 50% discounts at a variety of properties. Hacienda Jalisco, in the throwback mountain village of San Sebastian del Oeste (Jalisco), has no electricity, just oil lamps and candles. The guest list has included Richard Burton and Peter O' Toole. Rooms start at just $55. ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Budget travel", "Mexico City holidays", "Swine flu", "Spa breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Mexico after swine flu: 'half price for paradise'"},{"date": "2009-09-07T09:54:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Police have raided Sony Music's offices in Mexico City, seizing albums, master recordings and cover art for one of Latin music's biggest stars.Mexico's public ministry and federal police were acting on a court order concerning ranchera singer Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez. A two-time Latin Grammy winner, Fern\u00e1ndez was signed to Sony Music from 1998 to 2008 but left last year for Universal. Sony has gone ahead with plans to release an album of unreleased material, called Diferente, which Fern\u00e1ndez alleges they have no right to do.\"Sony assumed that they could take tracks that weren't part of previous albums and release them as an eighth album, as if it were new material, over which they had rights,\" Jose Luis Caballero, Fern\u00e1ndez's attorney, told Billboard. \"It's perfectly clear that the company's contract is limited to seven albums.\"Caballero said that they had issued a cease and desist letter two weeks ago and after this was ignored, sought a search and seizure order. Police reportedly seized 6,397 Fern\u00e1ndez CDs, masters of unreleased music, and art for Diferente.Sony Music issued a statement saying it was \"surprised and disappointed\" by the raid, calling the recordings \"totally authorised\". \"We trust that the Mexican courts will confirm our rights as soon as possible,\" a spokesperson said.Fern\u00e1ndez has sold more than 15m records worldwide.", "tags": ["World music", "Music", "Culture", "Sony", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Sony Mexico raided for 'unauthorised' Alejandro Fern\u00e1ndez material"},{"date": "2009-09-10T00:30:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The man who hijacked a passenger plane in Mexico yesterday claimed to be on a divine mission, officials said, after the plane's crew and 104 passengers were freed unhurt. The Aeromexico flight was seized when it landed after a flight from the resort city of Canc\u00fan. The hijacker, Jos\u00e9 Mar Flores, 44, reportedly told police that yesterday's date, 9/9/09, is the number 666 turned upside down. Flores used a fake bomb to hijack the plane, then ordered the pilot to circle Mexico City seven times. He said he wanted to warn Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f2n, of an impending earthquake.  ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Hijacker of plane in Mexico 'wanted to warn president of earthquake'"},{"date": "2009-09-10T12:22:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "More than 100 airline passengers were today released unharmed after their plane was hijacked by a man who claimed to be on a divine mission to warn the Mexican president of an earthquake.The Aeromexico flight was seized as it came in to land at Mexico City after a flight from the resort city of Cancun.Jos\u00e9 Mar Flores, a 44-year-old Bolivian preacher, used a fake bomb to carry out his hijacking and said yesterday's date \u2013 9/9/09 \u2013 was the number 666 turned upside down.He said had been told by God to warn the president, Felipe Calder\u00f2n, of an impending earthquake, and ordered the pilot to circle the city seven times, demanding to speak to Calder\u00f2n.The passengers were initially not told about what was happening as the pilot negotiated with Flores, who eventually allowed him to land the plane.The hijacker then kept the 103 passengers and crew on the tarmac for more than an hour as the plane was surrounded by heavily-armed police.He agreed to release women and children before, minutes later, police stormed the aircraft and escorted several handcuffed men away without firing a shot.Officers later said there was only one hijacker and the other men had been briefly detained because the suspect had told a flight attendant he had three accomplices.Flores later said his three companions were \"the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost\" and he had taken control of the aircraft with \"a juice can with some little lights I attached\". \"Christ is coming soon,\" he added.The pilot told reporters Flores \"said he had tried to speak to the president for three months and since there hadn't been an answer he decided to use this type of threat with an airline\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Plane hijacker 'wanted to warn Mexican president about earthquake'"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's a measure of how tough times are in Canc\u00fan that, when I flew in there last week and did a deal with a taxi company for a 30-mile ride to my destination, Playa del Carmen, the assistant at the desk whooped for joy \u2013 quite loudly \u2013 and did a little jig. \"We got a sale!\" she shouted to the reps at the next counter. \"We got a customer!\"That's how it feels on the Riviera Maya right now: tourists are so rare you start to know how it feels to be an endangered species.Tourism in Mexico has suffered three blows: first there were damaging headlines about drug violence at the start of the year; then came the world recession; and then, like a hole in the head, came swine flu. The upshot is that the Riviera Maya, the country's fastest-growing resort \u2013 which, without this triple whammy could have been in line for a bumper season \u2013 is staring disaster in the face.But it's still smiling: they know how to have fun in Mexico, and no-one is giving up just yet. I stayed in Playa at the cabana-style Playa del Karma (+984\u00a0803 02 72, hotelplayadelkarma.com), complete with yoga classes.Virtually every hotel in the country will do you a better deal than its published prices. \u2013 in my case, from US$69 to $47 a night. And, like almost every hotel and restaurant along the strip, staff are taking a hit, too \u2013 opting to work on lower pay to avoid redundancies. \"The tourists will come back,\" said my waitress. \"We all believe that.\"But for now, for the sun-seeking savvy, there are some great deals to be had \u2013 as well as the hotels, there are bargains in the shops and restaurants. Between October and April is the perfect time to visit for day-in-day-out sunshine and white-sand beaches \u2013 almost entirely empty last week. What's more, the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, Tulum and the jungle-encircled Coba are so quiet you almost feel they're undiscovered.\u2022 Casa Iguana Hotel in Puerto Vallarta, a beachside hotel perfect for families, has its rates down from US$112 to $56 a night, with two-bed suites available.\u2022 Thomson has 14 nights in Playacar, staying at the Riu Yucatan, flying from Gatwick to Cancun, departing on 5 November, for \u00a3941pp, saving \u00a3245 on the brochure price.\u2022 Alegria Villas, which opened in late 2007, is a mile from arty Todos Santos on the Pacific coast side of Mexico's Baja California peninsula. Its two palapa-thatched villas (both sleep 2-4) offer privacy and an ocean view, not to mention 50% off until 1 November, and then 25% off until 15 Jan 2010. From $350pp for a seven night stay (saving $350pp), excluding flights. \u2022 Bales' group-escorted Treasures of Mexico journey, starting in Mexico City and ending in Canc\u00fan, via Oaxaca, Monte Alb\u00e1n, Mitla, Chiapa de Corzo, San Crist\u00f3bal de las Casas, Palenque, Campeche and M\u00e9rida, costs \u00a31,895pp for 7 November departure and \u00a32,095 for 26 December departure (both prices include a \u00a3150 discount), including flights, accommodation, breakfast and all sightseeing.\u2022 Adventure tour operator Gap Adventures is offering a 20% discount on its 15-day Mexico Ancient Civilisations tour, departing 21 November. Starting in Mexico City, the tour takes in Puebla, Oaxaca, San Crist\u00f3bal and the Mayan ruins at Palenque and Chich\u00e9n Itz\u00e1, and ends with time to snorkel, sunbathe and relax at Playa del Carmen. The price has been reduced from \u00a3539 to \u00a3431pp, and includes accommodation and transport. Excludes flights.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Late offers", "Beach holidays", "Hotels", "Winter sun", "Gap year travel", "Travel", "Budget travel"], "title": "Great deals for visitors to Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's a measure of how tough times are in Canc\u00fan that, when I flew in there last week and did a deal with a taxi company for a 30-mile ride to my destination, Playa del Carmen, the assistant at the desk whooped for joy \u2013 quite loudly \u2013 and did a little jig. \"We got a sale!\" she shouted to the reps at the next counter. \"We got a customer!\"That's how it feels on the Riviera Maya right now: tourists are so rare you start to know how it feels to be an endangered species.Tourism in Mexico has suffered three blows: first there were damaging headlines about drug violence at the start of the year; then came the world recession; and then, like a hole in the head, came swine flu. The upshot is that the Riviera Maya, the country's fastest-growing resort \u2013 which, without this triple whammy could have been in line for a bumper season \u2013 is staring disaster in the face.But it's still smiling: they know how to have fun in Mexico, and no-one is giving up just yet. I stayed in Playa at the cabana-style Playa del Karma (+984\u00a0803 02 72, hotelplayadelkarma.com), complete with yoga classes.Virtually every hotel in the country will do you a better deal than its published prices. \u2013 in my case, from US$69 to $47 a night. And, like almost every hotel and restaurant along the strip, staff are taking a hit, too \u2013 opting to work on lower pay to avoid redundancies. \"The tourists will come back,\" said my waitress. \"We all believe that.\"But for now, for the sun-seeking savvy, there are some great deals to be had \u2013 as well as the hotels, there are bargains in the shops and restaurants. Between October and April is the perfect time to visit for day-in-day-out sunshine and white-sand beaches \u2013 almost entirely empty last week. What's more, the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, Tulum and the jungle-encircled Coba are so quiet you almost feel they're undiscovered.\u2022 Casa Iguana Hotel in Puerto Vallarta, a beachside hotel perfect for families, has its rates down from US$112 to $56 a night, with two-bed suites available.\u2022 Thomson has 14 nights in Playacar, staying at the Riu Yucatan, flying from Gatwick to Cancun, departing on 5 November, for \u00a3941pp, saving \u00a3245 on the brochure price.\u2022 Alegria Villas, which opened in late 2007, is a mile from arty Todos Santos on the Pacific coast side of Mexico's Baja California peninsula. Its two palapa-thatched villas (both sleep 2-4) offer privacy and an ocean view, not to mention 50% off until 1 November, and then 25% off until 15 Jan 2010. From $350pp for a seven night stay (saving $350pp), excluding flights. \u2022 Bales' group-escorted Treasures of Mexico journey, starting in Mexico City and ending in Canc\u00fan, via Oaxaca, Monte Alb\u00e1n, Mitla, Chiapa de Corzo, San Crist\u00f3bal de las Casas, Palenque, Campeche and M\u00e9rida, costs \u00a31,895pp for 7 November departure and \u00a32,095 for 26 December departure (both prices include a \u00a3150 discount), including flights, accommodation, breakfast and all sightseeing.\u2022 Adventure tour operator Gap Adventures is offering a 20% discount on its 15-day Mexico Ancient Civilisations tour, departing 21 November. Starting in Mexico City, the tour takes in Puebla, Oaxaca, San Crist\u00f3bal and the Mayan ruins at Palenque and Chich\u00e9n Itz\u00e1, and ends with time to snorkel, sunbathe and relax at Playa del Carmen. The price has been reduced from \u00a3539 to \u00a3431pp, and includes accommodation and transport. Excludes flights.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Late offers", "Beach holidays", "Hotels", "Winter sun", "Gap year travel", "Travel", "Budget travel"], "title": "Great deals for visitors to Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-22T19:29:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Gay rights activists across the world consider same-sex marriage one of their toughest goals. Only seven countries permit it: Belgium, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, South Africa and Sweden. A handful of US states also allow it.But on Monday night, and despite opposition from conservatives and the Roman Catholic church, Mexico City was in the vanguard of a Latin America-wide tilt towards greater tolerance for homosexuality. The Mexican capital became the first in Latin America to allow same-sex marriage with a groundbreaking law which could set a precedent for gay rights across the region.The city's assembly passed the legislation, which will also give gay couples the right to adopt children, in a dramatic vote that triggered celebrations and chants of \"yes we can\" from activists gathered in the chamber.Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay have made recent moves towards liberalisation and debate is stirring in other countries, emboldening gays to emerge from the closet and challenge traditional macho stereotypes. The trend contrasts with recent votes against same-sex marriage in the United States, notably California, Maine and New York, which have dismayed activists.Mexico's leftist Democratic Revolution party (PRD) pushed the bill through the capital's assembly 39-20, changing the city's civil code definition of marriage from the union of a man and a woman to the \"free uniting of two people\".The change will permit same-sex couples to adopt children, apply for joint bank loans, inherit wealth and share insurance policies. It is a significant expansion of rights granted under a 2006 law allowing same-sex civil unions.The mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, a crusading leftist from the PRD, was expected to sign the measure into law, paving the way for the region's first married gay couple. Activists inside the chamber cheered and waved rainbow banners, scenes repeated outside as news spread. \"We are so happy,\" Temistocles Villanueva, a 23-year-old film student, told Associated Press, as he embraced and kissed his boyfriend.Victor Romo, a member of the mayor's party, called it a historic day. \"For centuries unjust laws banned marriage between blacks and whites or Indians and Europeans. Today all barriers have disappeared.\"Conservatives condemned the change as an affront to those who lived outside the capital's liberal bubble. Cardinal Norberto Rivera Carrera said the law was immoral and that \"innocent children\" could be adopted by gay couples. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's National Action party said it would try to block the law.\"They have given Mexicans the most bitter Christmas,\" Armando Mart\u00ednez, the president of the College of Catholic Attorneys, told reporters. \"They are permitting adoption [by gay couples] and in one stroke of the pen have erased the term 'mother' and 'father'. \"Latin American governments have historically persecuted gay men and lesbians. Fidel Castro's Cuba as well as rightwing dictatorships were openly homophobic and punished gays as deviants from a macho ideal.Discrimination remains widespread, and the minority is still vulnerable. Walter Orlando Trochez, 27, a prominent gay and anti-coup activist in Honduras, was shot dead last week. Transgender sex workers across the region often complain of violent attacks by police and vigilantes.But in the last two decades attitudes have softened. The proportion who said they would not like to have homosexuals as neighbours plunged from 59% in 1995 to 29% this year, according to a Latinobar\u00f3metro poll taken in 18 countries across the region.\"Tolerance towards homosexuals has been the value dimension that has changed the most in the 15 years that we have been measuring,\" said Marta Lagos, the Chile-based pollster's founding director. \"The vast majority \u2013 70% \u2013 of the Latin American population tolerates homosexuals. Fifteen years ago it was the complete opposite.\"Lagos attributed the change to societies becoming more developed and people becoming more expressive. That did not mean progressive values were prevailing across the board: 36% said women should stay at home rather than work, the same proportion as in 1997. Opposition to abortion also remained high. \"It doesn't mean Latin American societies are becoming more similar to European societies,\" said the pollster.Tolerance is most visible in capitals, with the likes of Buenos Aires, Bogot\u00e1 and Mexico City boasting gay-friendly districts where same-sex couples have no fear of showing affection in public. Argentina's capital has opened Axel, Latin America's first luxury hotel aimed at gays. In a neat twist, it has declared itself \"heterosexual friendly\".Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 but conflicting judicial rulings recently stymied same-sex marriages. Several other Argentine cities, as well as Mexican and Brazilian states, also permit same-sex unions. Uruguay has become the first Latin American country to recognise such unions and permit adoption by gay couples. Colombia has granted social security rights to gay couples; its neighbour Venezuela is considering same-sex civil unions.\"Before, if you said you were gay, you were dead,\" said Alberto Rodriguez, a beautician from Venezuela. \"But now we're more accepted. We hold events, parades and fashion shows.\"Argentina Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 and was on the verge of permitting the continent's first gay marriage last month when a court forced it to be suspended. The couple about to tie the knot have vowed to fight on for the right to be \"husband and husband\".Brazil Famed as the continent's most tolerant but now lags behind neighbours on gay rights. A handful of states permit same-sex unions, and there are thriving gay scenes in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but little sign of moves towards gay marriage.Colombia In 2007 gay couples won the same social security rights as straight couples, the first nationwide law of its kind in Latin America. Allows homosexuals to include partners in health insurance plans.Mexico Mexico City this week passed a law permitting same-sex marriage. Builds on a 2006 law permitting same-sex civil unions.Uruguay In 2007 it became Latin America's first country to legalise same-sex civil unions, granting gay couples rights over inheritance, pensions and child custody. This year it scrapped military rules barring gays from the armed forces.", "tags": ["LGBT rights", "Mexico", "Civil partnerships", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "We do: Mexico City blazes trail with legalisation of same-sex marriage"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's a measure of how tough times are in Canc\u00fan that, when I flew in there last week and did a deal with a taxi company for a 30-mile ride to my destination, Playa del Carmen, the assistant at the desk whooped for joy \u2013 quite loudly \u2013 and did a little jig. \"We got a sale!\" she shouted to the reps at the next counter. \"We got a customer!\"That's how it feels on the Riviera Maya right now: tourists are so rare you start to know how it feels to be an endangered species.Tourism in Mexico has suffered three blows: first there were damaging headlines about drug violence at the start of the year; then came the world recession; and then, like a hole in the head, came swine flu. The upshot is that the Riviera Maya, the country's fastest-growing resort \u2013 which, without this triple whammy could have been in line for a bumper season \u2013 is staring disaster in the face.But it's still smiling: they know how to have fun in Mexico, and no-one is giving up just yet. I stayed in Playa at the cabana-style Playa del Karma (+984\u00a0803 02 72, hotelplayadelkarma.com), complete with yoga classes.Virtually every hotel in the country will do you a better deal than its published prices. \u2013 in my case, from US$69 to $47 a night. And, like almost every hotel and restaurant along the strip, staff are taking a hit, too \u2013 opting to work on lower pay to avoid redundancies. \"The tourists will come back,\" said my waitress. \"We all believe that.\"But for now, for the sun-seeking savvy, there are some great deals to be had \u2013 as well as the hotels, there are bargains in the shops and restaurants. Between October and April is the perfect time to visit for day-in-day-out sunshine and white-sand beaches \u2013 almost entirely empty last week. What's more, the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, Tulum and the jungle-encircled Coba are so quiet you almost feel they're undiscovered.\u2022 Casa Iguana Hotel in Puerto Vallarta, a beachside hotel perfect for families, has its rates down from US$112 to $56 a night, with two-bed suites available.\u2022 Thomson has 14 nights in Playacar, staying at the Riu Yucatan, flying from Gatwick to Cancun, departing on 5 November, for \u00a3941pp, saving \u00a3245 on the brochure price.\u2022 Alegria Villas, which opened in late 2007, is a mile from arty Todos Santos on the Pacific coast side of Mexico's Baja California peninsula. Its two palapa-thatched villas (both sleep 2-4) offer privacy and an ocean view, not to mention 50% off until 1 November, and then 25% off until 15 Jan 2010. From $350pp for a seven night stay (saving $350pp), excluding flights. \u2022 Bales' group-escorted Treasures of Mexico journey, starting in Mexico City and ending in Canc\u00fan, via Oaxaca, Monte Alb\u00e1n, Mitla, Chiapa de Corzo, San Crist\u00f3bal de las Casas, Palenque, Campeche and M\u00e9rida, costs \u00a31,895pp for 7 November departure and \u00a32,095 for 26 December departure (both prices include a \u00a3150 discount), including flights, accommodation, breakfast and all sightseeing.\u2022 Adventure tour operator Gap Adventures is offering a 20% discount on its 15-day Mexico Ancient Civilisations tour, departing 21 November. Starting in Mexico City, the tour takes in Puebla, Oaxaca, San Crist\u00f3bal and the Mayan ruins at Palenque and Chich\u00e9n Itz\u00e1, and ends with time to snorkel, sunbathe and relax at Playa del Carmen. The price has been reduced from \u00a3539 to \u00a3431pp, and includes accommodation and transport. Excludes flights.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Late offers", "Beach holidays", "Hotels", "Winter sun", "Gap year travel", "Travel", "Budget travel"], "title": "Great deals for visitors to Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-22T19:29:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Gay rights activists across the world consider same-sex marriage one of their toughest goals. Only seven countries permit it: Belgium, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, South Africa and Sweden. A handful of US states also allow it.But on Monday night, and despite opposition from conservatives and the Roman Catholic church, Mexico City was in the vanguard of a Latin America-wide tilt towards greater tolerance for homosexuality. The Mexican capital became the first in Latin America to allow same-sex marriage with a groundbreaking law which could set a precedent for gay rights across the region.The city's assembly passed the legislation, which will also give gay couples the right to adopt children, in a dramatic vote that triggered celebrations and chants of \"yes we can\" from activists gathered in the chamber.Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay have made recent moves towards liberalisation and debate is stirring in other countries, emboldening gays to emerge from the closet and challenge traditional macho stereotypes. The trend contrasts with recent votes against same-sex marriage in the United States, notably California, Maine and New York, which have dismayed activists.Mexico's leftist Democratic Revolution party (PRD) pushed the bill through the capital's assembly 39-20, changing the city's civil code definition of marriage from the union of a man and a woman to the \"free uniting of two people\".The change will permit same-sex couples to adopt children, apply for joint bank loans, inherit wealth and share insurance policies. It is a significant expansion of rights granted under a 2006 law allowing same-sex civil unions.The mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, a crusading leftist from the PRD, was expected to sign the measure into law, paving the way for the region's first married gay couple. Activists inside the chamber cheered and waved rainbow banners, scenes repeated outside as news spread. \"We are so happy,\" Temistocles Villanueva, a 23-year-old film student, told Associated Press, as he embraced and kissed his boyfriend.Victor Romo, a member of the mayor's party, called it a historic day. \"For centuries unjust laws banned marriage between blacks and whites or Indians and Europeans. Today all barriers have disappeared.\"Conservatives condemned the change as an affront to those who lived outside the capital's liberal bubble. Cardinal Norberto Rivera Carrera said the law was immoral and that \"innocent children\" could be adopted by gay couples. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's National Action party said it would try to block the law.\"They have given Mexicans the most bitter Christmas,\" Armando Mart\u00ednez, the president of the College of Catholic Attorneys, told reporters. \"They are permitting adoption [by gay couples] and in one stroke of the pen have erased the term 'mother' and 'father'. \"Latin American governments have historically persecuted gay men and lesbians. Fidel Castro's Cuba as well as rightwing dictatorships were openly homophobic and punished gays as deviants from a macho ideal.Discrimination remains widespread, and the minority is still vulnerable. Walter Orlando Trochez, 27, a prominent gay and anti-coup activist in Honduras, was shot dead last week. Transgender sex workers across the region often complain of violent attacks by police and vigilantes.But in the last two decades attitudes have softened. The proportion who said they would not like to have homosexuals as neighbours plunged from 59% in 1995 to 29% this year, according to a Latinobar\u00f3metro poll taken in 18 countries across the region.\"Tolerance towards homosexuals has been the value dimension that has changed the most in the 15 years that we have been measuring,\" said Marta Lagos, the Chile-based pollster's founding director. \"The vast majority \u2013 70% \u2013 of the Latin American population tolerates homosexuals. Fifteen years ago it was the complete opposite.\"Lagos attributed the change to societies becoming more developed and people becoming more expressive. That did not mean progressive values were prevailing across the board: 36% said women should stay at home rather than work, the same proportion as in 1997. Opposition to abortion also remained high. \"It doesn't mean Latin American societies are becoming more similar to European societies,\" said the pollster.Tolerance is most visible in capitals, with the likes of Buenos Aires, Bogot\u00e1 and Mexico City boasting gay-friendly districts where same-sex couples have no fear of showing affection in public. Argentina's capital has opened Axel, Latin America's first luxury hotel aimed at gays. In a neat twist, it has declared itself \"heterosexual friendly\".Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 but conflicting judicial rulings recently stymied same-sex marriages. Several other Argentine cities, as well as Mexican and Brazilian states, also permit same-sex unions. Uruguay has become the first Latin American country to recognise such unions and permit adoption by gay couples. Colombia has granted social security rights to gay couples; its neighbour Venezuela is considering same-sex civil unions.\"Before, if you said you were gay, you were dead,\" said Alberto Rodriguez, a beautician from Venezuela. \"But now we're more accepted. We hold events, parades and fashion shows.\"Argentina Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 and was on the verge of permitting the continent's first gay marriage last month when a court forced it to be suspended. The couple about to tie the knot have vowed to fight on for the right to be \"husband and husband\".Brazil Famed as the continent's most tolerant but now lags behind neighbours on gay rights. A handful of states permit same-sex unions, and there are thriving gay scenes in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but little sign of moves towards gay marriage.Colombia In 2007 gay couples won the same social security rights as straight couples, the first nationwide law of its kind in Latin America. Allows homosexuals to include partners in health insurance plans.Mexico Mexico City this week passed a law permitting same-sex marriage. Builds on a 2006 law permitting same-sex civil unions.Uruguay In 2007 it became Latin America's first country to legalise same-sex civil unions, granting gay couples rights over inheritance, pensions and child custody. This year it scrapped military rules barring gays from the armed forces.", "tags": ["LGBT rights", "Mexico", "Civil partnerships", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "We do: Mexico City blazes trail with legalisation of same-sex marriage"},{"date": "2009-12-15T12:55:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As soldiers prepared to raid a drug cartel's Christmas party, they knew they could face a gun battle \u2013 but they were probably not expecting to face a Grammy-award winner.The accordionist, songwriter and cowboy hat enthusiast Ram\u00f3n Ayala and his band were performing at a house in a gated community of mansions outside the mountain town of Tepoztl\u00e1n, in Mexico, when soldiers raided the building.A shoot-out ensued in which three gunmen were killed. Eleven people suspected of working for the Beltr\u00e1n-Leyva cartel were detained, the Mexican navy said.The military also seized $280,000 (\u00a3222,000) in cash and 16 automatic rifles during a raid which formed part of the Mexican government's ongoing campaign to crack down on drug gangs.The country's attorney general's office said Ayala, who lives in Hidalgo, Texas, was released after being questioned on Saturday. The authorities found no grounds for charging him.The musician's website says he has \"defined\" norte\u00f1o music, which is known for its use of the accordion and bajo sexto. The style is highly popular among Mexicans, with Ayala selling an average of 750,000 records a year.Ayala, 64, has won two Latin Grammys and released more than 100 albums. He is due to host Ram\u00f3n Ayala's Christmas Posada as part of Hidalgo's Festival of Lights Christmas celebration this week.Modern norte\u00f1o genre has a darker side, with bands often singing about drug trafficking and violence. According to the Associated Press, many norte\u00f1o musicians are alleged to have performed for drug cartels.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Grammys", "Music", "Americas"], "title": "Grammy-winning star caught up in raid at Mexico drug cartel party"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's a measure of how tough times are in Canc\u00fan that, when I flew in there last week and did a deal with a taxi company for a 30-mile ride to my destination, Playa del Carmen, the assistant at the desk whooped for joy \u2013 quite loudly \u2013 and did a little jig. \"We got a sale!\" she shouted to the reps at the next counter. \"We got a customer!\"That's how it feels on the Riviera Maya right now: tourists are so rare you start to know how it feels to be an endangered species.Tourism in Mexico has suffered three blows: first there were damaging headlines about drug violence at the start of the year; then came the world recession; and then, like a hole in the head, came swine flu. The upshot is that the Riviera Maya, the country's fastest-growing resort \u2013 which, without this triple whammy could have been in line for a bumper season \u2013 is staring disaster in the face.But it's still smiling: they know how to have fun in Mexico, and no-one is giving up just yet. I stayed in Playa at the cabana-style Playa del Karma (+984\u00a0803 02 72, hotelplayadelkarma.com), complete with yoga classes.Virtually every hotel in the country will do you a better deal than its published prices. \u2013 in my case, from US$69 to $47 a night. And, like almost every hotel and restaurant along the strip, staff are taking a hit, too \u2013 opting to work on lower pay to avoid redundancies. \"The tourists will come back,\" said my waitress. \"We all believe that.\"But for now, for the sun-seeking savvy, there are some great deals to be had \u2013 as well as the hotels, there are bargains in the shops and restaurants. Between October and April is the perfect time to visit for day-in-day-out sunshine and white-sand beaches \u2013 almost entirely empty last week. What's more, the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, Tulum and the jungle-encircled Coba are so quiet you almost feel they're undiscovered.\u2022 Casa Iguana Hotel in Puerto Vallarta, a beachside hotel perfect for families, has its rates down from US$112 to $56 a night, with two-bed suites available.\u2022 Thomson has 14 nights in Playacar, staying at the Riu Yucatan, flying from Gatwick to Cancun, departing on 5 November, for \u00a3941pp, saving \u00a3245 on the brochure price.\u2022 Alegria Villas, which opened in late 2007, is a mile from arty Todos Santos on the Pacific coast side of Mexico's Baja California peninsula. Its two palapa-thatched villas (both sleep 2-4) offer privacy and an ocean view, not to mention 50% off until 1 November, and then 25% off until 15 Jan 2010. From $350pp for a seven night stay (saving $350pp), excluding flights. \u2022 Bales' group-escorted Treasures of Mexico journey, starting in Mexico City and ending in Canc\u00fan, via Oaxaca, Monte Alb\u00e1n, Mitla, Chiapa de Corzo, San Crist\u00f3bal de las Casas, Palenque, Campeche and M\u00e9rida, costs \u00a31,895pp for 7 November departure and \u00a32,095 for 26 December departure (both prices include a \u00a3150 discount), including flights, accommodation, breakfast and all sightseeing.\u2022 Adventure tour operator Gap Adventures is offering a 20% discount on its 15-day Mexico Ancient Civilisations tour, departing 21 November. Starting in Mexico City, the tour takes in Puebla, Oaxaca, San Crist\u00f3bal and the Mayan ruins at Palenque and Chich\u00e9n Itz\u00e1, and ends with time to snorkel, sunbathe and relax at Playa del Carmen. The price has been reduced from \u00a3539 to \u00a3431pp, and includes accommodation and transport. Excludes flights.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Late offers", "Beach holidays", "Hotels", "Winter sun", "Gap year travel", "Travel", "Budget travel"], "title": "Great deals for visitors to Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-22T19:29:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Gay rights activists across the world consider same-sex marriage one of their toughest goals. Only seven countries permit it: Belgium, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, South Africa and Sweden. A handful of US states also allow it.But on Monday night, and despite opposition from conservatives and the Roman Catholic church, Mexico City was in the vanguard of a Latin America-wide tilt towards greater tolerance for homosexuality. The Mexican capital became the first in Latin America to allow same-sex marriage with a groundbreaking law which could set a precedent for gay rights across the region.The city's assembly passed the legislation, which will also give gay couples the right to adopt children, in a dramatic vote that triggered celebrations and chants of \"yes we can\" from activists gathered in the chamber.Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay have made recent moves towards liberalisation and debate is stirring in other countries, emboldening gays to emerge from the closet and challenge traditional macho stereotypes. The trend contrasts with recent votes against same-sex marriage in the United States, notably California, Maine and New York, which have dismayed activists.Mexico's leftist Democratic Revolution party (PRD) pushed the bill through the capital's assembly 39-20, changing the city's civil code definition of marriage from the union of a man and a woman to the \"free uniting of two people\".The change will permit same-sex couples to adopt children, apply for joint bank loans, inherit wealth and share insurance policies. It is a significant expansion of rights granted under a 2006 law allowing same-sex civil unions.The mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, a crusading leftist from the PRD, was expected to sign the measure into law, paving the way for the region's first married gay couple. Activists inside the chamber cheered and waved rainbow banners, scenes repeated outside as news spread. \"We are so happy,\" Temistocles Villanueva, a 23-year-old film student, told Associated Press, as he embraced and kissed his boyfriend.Victor Romo, a member of the mayor's party, called it a historic day. \"For centuries unjust laws banned marriage between blacks and whites or Indians and Europeans. Today all barriers have disappeared.\"Conservatives condemned the change as an affront to those who lived outside the capital's liberal bubble. Cardinal Norberto Rivera Carrera said the law was immoral and that \"innocent children\" could be adopted by gay couples. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's National Action party said it would try to block the law.\"They have given Mexicans the most bitter Christmas,\" Armando Mart\u00ednez, the president of the College of Catholic Attorneys, told reporters. \"They are permitting adoption [by gay couples] and in one stroke of the pen have erased the term 'mother' and 'father'. \"Latin American governments have historically persecuted gay men and lesbians. Fidel Castro's Cuba as well as rightwing dictatorships were openly homophobic and punished gays as deviants from a macho ideal.Discrimination remains widespread, and the minority is still vulnerable. Walter Orlando Trochez, 27, a prominent gay and anti-coup activist in Honduras, was shot dead last week. Transgender sex workers across the region often complain of violent attacks by police and vigilantes.But in the last two decades attitudes have softened. The proportion who said they would not like to have homosexuals as neighbours plunged from 59% in 1995 to 29% this year, according to a Latinobar\u00f3metro poll taken in 18 countries across the region.\"Tolerance towards homosexuals has been the value dimension that has changed the most in the 15 years that we have been measuring,\" said Marta Lagos, the Chile-based pollster's founding director. \"The vast majority \u2013 70% \u2013 of the Latin American population tolerates homosexuals. Fifteen years ago it was the complete opposite.\"Lagos attributed the change to societies becoming more developed and people becoming more expressive. That did not mean progressive values were prevailing across the board: 36% said women should stay at home rather than work, the same proportion as in 1997. Opposition to abortion also remained high. \"It doesn't mean Latin American societies are becoming more similar to European societies,\" said the pollster.Tolerance is most visible in capitals, with the likes of Buenos Aires, Bogot\u00e1 and Mexico City boasting gay-friendly districts where same-sex couples have no fear of showing affection in public. Argentina's capital has opened Axel, Latin America's first luxury hotel aimed at gays. In a neat twist, it has declared itself \"heterosexual friendly\".Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 but conflicting judicial rulings recently stymied same-sex marriages. Several other Argentine cities, as well as Mexican and Brazilian states, also permit same-sex unions. Uruguay has become the first Latin American country to recognise such unions and permit adoption by gay couples. Colombia has granted social security rights to gay couples; its neighbour Venezuela is considering same-sex civil unions.\"Before, if you said you were gay, you were dead,\" said Alberto Rodriguez, a beautician from Venezuela. \"But now we're more accepted. We hold events, parades and fashion shows.\"Argentina Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 and was on the verge of permitting the continent's first gay marriage last month when a court forced it to be suspended. The couple about to tie the knot have vowed to fight on for the right to be \"husband and husband\".Brazil Famed as the continent's most tolerant but now lags behind neighbours on gay rights. A handful of states permit same-sex unions, and there are thriving gay scenes in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but little sign of moves towards gay marriage.Colombia In 2007 gay couples won the same social security rights as straight couples, the first nationwide law of its kind in Latin America. Allows homosexuals to include partners in health insurance plans.Mexico Mexico City this week passed a law permitting same-sex marriage. Builds on a 2006 law permitting same-sex civil unions.Uruguay In 2007 it became Latin America's first country to legalise same-sex civil unions, granting gay couples rights over inheritance, pensions and child custody. This year it scrapped military rules barring gays from the armed forces.", "tags": ["LGBT rights", "Mexico", "Civil partnerships", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "We do: Mexico City blazes trail with legalisation of same-sex marriage"},{"date": "2009-12-15T12:55:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As soldiers prepared to raid a drug cartel's Christmas party, they knew they could face a gun battle \u2013 but they were probably not expecting to face a Grammy-award winner.The accordionist, songwriter and cowboy hat enthusiast Ram\u00f3n Ayala and his band were performing at a house in a gated community of mansions outside the mountain town of Tepoztl\u00e1n, in Mexico, when soldiers raided the building.A shoot-out ensued in which three gunmen were killed. Eleven people suspected of working for the Beltr\u00e1n-Leyva cartel were detained, the Mexican navy said.The military also seized $280,000 (\u00a3222,000) in cash and 16 automatic rifles during a raid which formed part of the Mexican government's ongoing campaign to crack down on drug gangs.The country's attorney general's office said Ayala, who lives in Hidalgo, Texas, was released after being questioned on Saturday. The authorities found no grounds for charging him.The musician's website says he has \"defined\" norte\u00f1o music, which is known for its use of the accordion and bajo sexto. The style is highly popular among Mexicans, with Ayala selling an average of 750,000 records a year.Ayala, 64, has won two Latin Grammys and released more than 100 albums. He is due to host Ram\u00f3n Ayala's Christmas Posada as part of Hidalgo's Festival of Lights Christmas celebration this week.Modern norte\u00f1o genre has a darker side, with bands often singing about drug trafficking and violence. According to the Associated Press, many norte\u00f1o musicians are alleged to have performed for drug cartels.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Grammys", "Music", "Americas"], "title": "Grammy-winning star caught up in raid at Mexico drug cartel party"},{"date": "2009-12-10T08:58:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A plan for the ousted Honduran president, Manuel Zelaya, to leave the country for Mexico has stalled over his refusal to accept political asylum. Mexico's foreign relations department said it asked the post-coup regime to guarantee Zelaya's safe passage out of the country without being arrested on treason and abuse of power charges.Honduran officials said the regime agreed to let Zelaya go if he was willing to accept political asylum but Zelaya said he would not accept a departure under those terms.\"I want to leave as a distinguished guest, not as a political refugee like the interim government wants,\" Zelaya told Radio Globo late last night from the Brazilian embassy, where he has spent nearly three months after a failed effort to get his office back and prevent the election of his successor.The regime had been insistent Zelaya would be arrested on the charges that led to his overthrow on 28 June for ignoring a supreme court order against holding a referendum on changing the constitution. But recently it began hinting Zelaya could leave for exile or political asylum in another country.Zelaya said he was leaving to seek out a neutral site for talks with the Honduran president-elect, Porfirio Lobo.Zelaya said he wanted a negotiated solution for his departure \u2013 one \"that respected the law, and respected my office\" as president.He suggested he wanted a status that would \"allow me to continue my (political) actions abroad\". After being ousted he tried to operate a government-in-exile from other Latin American nations.\"I will not accept any political asylum,\" Zelaya said. That status might hinder his campaign to drum up opposition to the forces that removed him from the presidency.Oscar Raul Matute, the interim interior minister, said Mexico had filed paperwork asking for safe passage for Zelaya but had failed to include whether Zelaya would be recognised by Mexico as the Honduran president or as a citizen being given refuge.\"If the government of Mexico wishes to give him asylum we will consider that petition as long as it fulfills all the requirements,\" Matute told CNN en Espa\u00f1ol.Honduras's Congress, which is dominated by Zelaya's own political party, voted 111 to 14 last week month against restoring him to office to serve out his term, which ends on 27 January.The interim regime's foreign minister, Carlos Lopez, told Channel 5 television that a Mexican plane had approached Honduras late last night to fly Zelaya out of the country but that had it diverted to El Salvador. \"Honduras will only offer a safe conduct pass to Zelaya to travel to another country as a political refugee and not in any other way,\" Lopez said.A Mexican government official told the Associated Press a plane had apparently been sent or would be sent to Honduras. The official said negotiations were focused on exactly what title Zelaya would be given.On Tuesday, Porfirio Lobo, the man who won the 29 November election to replace Zelaya, said he supported amnesty for Zelaya and for all of those involved in the coup that deposed him.Although Zelaya has refused to recognise the election, Lobo has said he hopes to open dialogue with the deposed leader and start a national reconciliation process after taking office.But Lobo's options are limited. Even once he takes office, he cannot grant Zelaya amnesty from prosecution. That power belongs to the same Congress that overwhelmingly rejected reinstating Zelaya.Western hemisphere countries united to condemn Zelaya's ouster but are divided on whether to recognise Lobo's election. The US, which cut off some aid over the coup, and a few countries in Latin America have said Hondurans had the right to choose a new leader in regular elections that had been scheduled before Zelaya's overthrow.Other nations including Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela have rejected the election, saying they will not legitimise Central America's first coup in two decades.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Refugees", "Human rights", "World news", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Zelaya refuses to leave Honduras as political exile"},{"date": "2009-10-20T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades, Enrique Fuentes, the owner of Librer\u00eda Madero, an antiquarian bookshop in the historic centre of Mexico City, rummaged through piles of near-garbage in a junkyard market. A 16th-century book he dug up there in 1985 paid for the shop he now owns.In Mexico City, books exchange hands continually, between private owners, bookshops and public libraries, sold, stolen, lost or often just thrown away. Garbage is big business in the city, and salvaged books are sold to junk dealers, who either sell them on the street, in markets or to secondhand booksellers.Although many of its books come from such humble sources, Librer\u00eda Madero has one of the finest collections of Mexican history and antiquarian books in the city. The volumes that line the walls are clean and well-ordered. Not so in the dozen or so secondhand bookshops housed in crumbling colonial buildings along the length of Calle Donceles, one of the oldest streets in Mexico City.Given the stacks of dusty books heaped on tables, stuffed into shelves, blocking passageways of sunken floors or spilling on to the sidewalk, one could easily imagine that these shops have been here since Mexico was a Spanish colony. But although this neighbourhood was home to the first printing press on the continent (100 years before the first book was published in the US) and was for centuries the centre of \u00adMexican publishing, the area became associated with bookselling again only in the last few decades.You don't have to read Spanish to love these bookstores, as there's an incredible range of old, odd books in English (as well as French, German and Italian) scattered throughout the shelves. In one Donceles shop, Bibliofilia, a 1960s Manual for Refrigeration Mechanics, a first edition of TS Eliot's The Cocktail Party and the 1866 History of the United States in four volumes with steel engravings are all for sale, at about a third the price they could fetch north of the border.Although good deals are to be found on blankets spread out around the city, in bookstalls set up on traffic islands, or in the happy hunting ground of flea markets, when you buy a book in a Donceles bookstore you feel you have acquired a piece of Mexico City's history.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico: following the book trail"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:07:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mangroves and lagoons stretch along the northern half of Mexico's Campeche coast, home to countless flamingoes, while to the south the narrow bands of white sand beaches have always been cordoned off for turtles, not tourists. In the aftermath of the swine flu outbreak, Canc\u00fan, on the opposite side of the Yucatan peninsula, has been missing its usual planeloads of holidaymakers. But Campeche has never courted vast numbers of visitors and, while welcoming the few that come, can get by just fine without them. Lacking the Yucatan east coast's turquoise seas and sweeping beaches, this ruggedly beautiful western coast epitomises independent spirit. It's certainly safe again to bring your body here for healing winter sun; but more to the point, this area has always provided a unique medicine for the soul. Its inhabitants are justifiably proud of their abundant wildlife and rich cultural inheritance, while Campeche city itself is one of the most beguiling places in Latin America.Beat-up cars rattle through the narrow cobbled streets, a rusting Dodge parked up outside the pastel blue manicured splendour of a colonial house. The whole city centre is listed as a Unesco world heritage site: a perfectly preserved 16th-century Spanish colonial streetscape, where the fierce tropical sun tears shadows through curving wrought-iron balconies and window grilles, across the painted walls. Despite its overwhelming beauty, historical importance, and extreme safety, Campeche city is no stuffy museum piece. The vigorous thrum of Mexican daily life beats everywhere just beneath its stuccoed skin. The streets are filled with independently-owned shops selling pens, or tinsel, or radios. Women and old men pray beneath the chandeliers inside the finely-kept churches, or come to read their newspapers in the pews, finding sanctuary for the flesh as well as the soul in the cool limestone walls. Pelicans dive into the navy waters of the Gulf of Mexico beyond the city's sea\u00a0walls, splashing down between small fishing boats, while Mayan women from the countryside sell mangoes on street corners and lanky boys shoot pool at battered green tables in antique colonnades.By night, the young Campechanos head out along the city's modern seafront, the Malecon. Open-top Beetles fly by with girls perched up on the back hood, holding on, brown knees bent against the sea wind; palm trees billowing high spikes sideways in the sky above. The strip is lined with bright taquerias where I ate creamy hot rajas \u2013 green pepper tortillas \u2013 with new friends as the Mexico vs US baseball match played on TV. Afterwards, everyone goes to Rouge for salsa dancing, or to elegant old stone bars such as El Iguana Azul on Calle 55. For late-night eating, we visited the 24-hour La Parroquia restaurant on Calle 55; for top-class cuisine there was the romantic terrace restaurant at Puerta Campeche; while my favourite eating experience was in Sabor a Mexico on Calle 16 \u2013 a tiny colourful kitchen you can walk into from the pavement. I breakfasted here on chilli eggs, black beans, tortillas and a local drink made with jamaica flowers, for a handful of pesos, and was served by the owners' sweet-mannered children.On Friday evening at the city's heart, in the plaza in front of the cathedral, musicians were playing from the bandstand steps for their regular weekly audience. Lamplight caught the brilliant gold braiding on the mariachi jackets of the players, while fairy lights twinkled in the trees above the applause. Afterwards, I wandered back to the old arches of the Castelmar hotel, across terracotta tiled floors and courtyards to where the deep pool shone quietly underneath a soaring ochre wall and the night sky. Doing a lazy backstroke, gazing at Orion and Venus overhead, I could hear faint rushes of salsa from the cars in the streets; someone singing in a room. \u00a0In a Yucatan city with no beach, a hotel with a pool is almost a prerequisite. I loved the affordable Castelmar, with its high ceiling beams and big hardwood beds. I also stayed at the Puerta Campeche for a night of total indulgence. Housed in one of the city's old forts, its sybaritically minimalist suites are arranged around a garden courtyard filled with the sound of tumbling water and a series of interconnecting bathing pools that meander in and out of the buildings, between ruined walls.A few blocks away, the streets around Calle 10 are lined with shops selling jewellery and panama hats, as well as boutiques and panader\u00edas where you can pick up a bag of sugared pastries. I bought carnival masks and cream-stuffed boletas \u2013 all you need to eat cake in disguise. Later, at the rows of tables outside the cathedral, I joined in the evening game of bingo with amiable locals who managed to keep me right.On the west side of the cathedral plaza you find Casa 6, the old house of Campeche's founding father, Francisco de Montejo, now refitted to look as it would have in his day, and open as a museum. On the north side is the airy library, which I fell in love with, and its amazing collection of historical old books published soon after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. As Dami\u00e1n Dzib of the Instituto Campechano, put it to me: \"They [the Spanish] preserved the history of what they found by writing it, even though they were destroying it.\" In one rare and mottled book, Brief Relation of the Destruction of the Indians, collected by Don Fray Bartolome of the Order of Santo Domingo, printed in 1552, a brave bishop pleads with the Spanish emperor for the indigenous people to be treated fairly. Other books give more idea of Campeche's past: an 1857 pamphlet on penal law for deserters; or an 1883 copy of Pirates and Aggressions of the English, 1690-1777. I wondered if my Anglo-Caribbean pirate ancestor, Stede Bonnet, was in there, but thought it might be more tactful not to find out.Pirate attacks were the reason for Campeche's fortifications. The town had been repeatedly plundered, and you can still see why. A solid silver altar and silver lectern gleam in the crystal-specked shadows of the checker-floored cathedral, while even the smaller churches are fitted out with gold and precious stones. To the ancient Mayans, jade was more esteemed than their plentiful gold. At the fort of San Miguel, built just outside the city as part of its defences, I spent a late afternoon exploring the collection of Mayan jade funerary masks and astrological stelae in its museum, watching the sun set over the old cannons and the now-peaceful sea.\u00a0After several days of the city, I took off for a day's fishing in the mangrove inlets up the coast. I caught nothing more than sargassum seaweed, but was happy enough to drift through the amber shadows under the overhanging branches beneath occasional clouds of pure white garza herons; and to take a\u00a0defeated doze beneath my sombrero, listening only to the sound of water lapping against the boat, the rustle of smaller birds close by in the leaves.The little ruined Mayan city of nearby Edzna has a similar air of peace. Campechanos sometimes come here for a walk, but it was very quiet when I visited and the place had the quality of an empty cathedral, or a garden at dusk. Its soft grey stones faced each other in perfect alignment, high above the planes of smooth green grass that had once been its squares and ball courts. As I stood on the top of its pyramid, the brilliant blue magpies rising from the canopy of trees in the surrounding woodland were the sole movement. Somehow they only accentuated the stillness.For my second week, I went to spend a few days out at a hacienda called Blancaflor. There are plenty of luxurious ex-hacienda hotels around, but the interesting thing about this less-luxurious place is that it still functions while also welcoming hotel guests. There were rows of tasselled, hand-stitched saddles by the gate, and old jeeps parked up outside, ready to help bring in the crop from the aloe vera and sisal fields. The food and the showers were basic but fine, and the house itself was stunning, with its antique furniture and arched walkways, and a shallow bathing pool filled from a freshwater well in the scented garden. I felt like a leisurely ranchera, out exploring the estate in the midday sun before collapsing sunburnt into my comfy candlewick bed.\u00a0Packing an outback rucksack, I drove south along the highway for a couple of hundred miles to Calakmul, a vast and remote wildlife reserve near the border with Guatemala and home to jaguars. The stony peaks of one of the largest, most important Mayan sites in Mexico \u2013 from which emperors ruled long before Chichen Itza existed \u2013 rise up from this pristine jungle and give it its name. The 6,000 ancient structures lie 60km inside the reserve: I spent the night camping in a forest tent at Yaax'Che, just inside the reserve's perimeter, with anteaters snuffling around the canvas. I woke at five and drove on under a full moon, slowing for wild peacocks on the road. Dawn broke through chechen and ceiba trees thick with wild orchids, loud with howler monkeys, as I walked towards the ruined city. Ancient carved faces and symbols of birth surrounded a ziggurat with trees growing out of its steps; halfway up another stood an ornate stelae to an unknown female god. From the high top of Structure II, I watched the clear morning sunlight steam across a flat sea of green treetops, stretching to each horizon, broken only by the three nearby peaks of other smaller pyramids; a view unchanged for centuries.\u00a0This whole area is full of intriguing sites. I spent another night at a forest cabin in Puerta Calakmul, next to Balamku. Jose and Luis, two excellent young English-speaking guides on a UN-funded training programme, pointed out various birds to me as we walked around the Balamku ruins: the wood-rails and yellow orioles darted around the opening to a hidden chamber inside the main pyramid, which was filled with spectacular carvings of gods and jaguars.\u00a0Using a modern cottage at Chicanna Eco-Village as a base for my third night, I wandered the stones at Becan for hours. Likewise the ruins of Xpujil, and of Chicanna itself. As I\u00a0climbed a temple to stand beneath the overhanging beak of a Chicanna deity, the sun chose to disappear. Raindrops clattered on the stone and on my head; I stood there, getting completely drenched as the rain\u00a0ran ever louder into the thick leaves of the jungle. After the sky had cleared, I walked back down the path towards the gaping stone mouth of a Mayan earth god and a couple of rare visitors. The air was dry and bright once more, but now there was the sound of the rain that had been caught in the leaves, falling on to other leaves beneath \u2013 a second rainfall. Like rain that falls even after rain clouds have gone, this corner of Mexico gives you a peace and tranquillity that sustains, long after you've gone home.Several major airlines fly into Mexico City; from there take an Aeromexico flight direct to Campeche. The cheapest way to reach Yucatan is to get a charter flight to Cancun, then catch the coach across the \u00ad Yucatan (about US$15 each way, six hours).Where to stayHotel Castelmar (00 52 981 811 1204, castelmarhotel.com), doubles from $61. Puerta Campeche (+981 816 7508, thehaciendas.com), doubles from $234 (plus tax). Hacienda Blancaflor (+999 258 042, blancaflor.com.mx), doubles from $135. Campamento Yaax'Che (+983\u00a0871 6064, email ciitcalakmul@prodigy.net.mx). Puerta Calakmul (+998 892 2624, puertacalakmul.com.mx), doubles from $110. Chicanna Eco-Village (+981 811 9192, \u00ad chicannaecovillageresort.com), from $110.Further informationMangrove fishing: Campeche Tarpon (+981 816 4450, campechetarpon.com). Trips: Maya NatureSophie Cooke is the author of The Glass House and Under The Mountain, published by Arrow Books.\u00a0", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Winter sun", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Campeche, the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-10T19:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The remains of a two-legged meat-eating predator that roamed the Earth at the dawn of dinosaurs have been uncovered in an ancient bone bed by fossil hunters.The feathered beast, named Tawa hallae, was the size of a large dog and sported a long neck and tail, a slender snout, and sharp, curved teeth to catch and kill its prey.Palaeontologists unearthed several skeletons belonging to Tawa hallae during an excavation at the Hayden quarry in northern New Mexico. The remains are more than 213m years old, placing the creature at the foot of tree of dinosaur evolution.The species is one of the earliest known therapods, the group of dinosaurs that includes birds, velociraptors and Tyrannosaurus rex.The most complete skeleton belongs to a juvenile that stood around 70cm tall at the hips and measured two metres from snout to tail.The dinosaurs emerged in the late triassic period, around 230m years ago and became the dominant land-dwelling vertebrates for the next 160m years. \"It's very rare to have known this much about a single dinosaur during the early time of dinosaur evolution,\" said Sterling Nesbitt, a palaeontologist at the University of Texas in Austin.The dinosaur lived at a time when the world's land mass was a single vast supercontinent called Pangea. This later broke up into the separate continents we see today.The animals' remains are in such good condition palaeontologists suspect they were buried very soon after dying. Examination of the fossils revealed air-filled sacs in the bones, a feature that links the dinosaurs with the evolution of birds much later.\"When we saw them, our jaws dropped. A lot of these theropods have really hollow bones, so when they get preserved, they get really crunched. But these were in almost perfect condition,\" Nesbitt said.Analysis of the fossils from New Mexico suggest Tawa hallae may have originated in what is now South America and crossed Pangea to the region that is now North America, according to a report in the journal, Science.\"This new dinosaur Tawa hallae changes our understanding of the relationships of early dinosaurs and provides fantastic insight into the evolution of the skeleton of the first carnivorous dinosaurs,\" said Randall Irmis, a co-author on the study from the Utah Museum of Natural History.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Archaeology", "Science", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Early-bird dinosaur found in New Mexico"},{"date": "2009-10-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's a measure of how tough times are in Canc\u00fan that, when I flew in there last week and did a deal with a taxi company for a 30-mile ride to my destination, Playa del Carmen, the assistant at the desk whooped for joy \u2013 quite loudly \u2013 and did a little jig. \"We got a sale!\" she shouted to the reps at the next counter. \"We got a customer!\"That's how it feels on the Riviera Maya right now: tourists are so rare you start to know how it feels to be an endangered species.Tourism in Mexico has suffered three blows: first there were damaging headlines about drug violence at the start of the year; then came the world recession; and then, like a hole in the head, came swine flu. The upshot is that the Riviera Maya, the country's fastest-growing resort \u2013 which, without this triple whammy could have been in line for a bumper season \u2013 is staring disaster in the face.But it's still smiling: they know how to have fun in Mexico, and no-one is giving up just yet. I stayed in Playa at the cabana-style Playa del Karma (+984\u00a0803 02 72, hotelplayadelkarma.com), complete with yoga classes.Virtually every hotel in the country will do you a better deal than its published prices. \u2013 in my case, from US$69 to $47 a night. And, like almost every hotel and restaurant along the strip, staff are taking a hit, too \u2013 opting to work on lower pay to avoid redundancies. \"The tourists will come back,\" said my waitress. \"We all believe that.\"But for now, for the sun-seeking savvy, there are some great deals to be had \u2013 as well as the hotels, there are bargains in the shops and restaurants. Between October and April is the perfect time to visit for day-in-day-out sunshine and white-sand beaches \u2013 almost entirely empty last week. What's more, the Mayan ruins of Chichen Itza, Tulum and the jungle-encircled Coba are so quiet you almost feel they're undiscovered.\u2022 Casa Iguana Hotel in Puerto Vallarta, a beachside hotel perfect for families, has its rates down from US$112 to $56 a night, with two-bed suites available.\u2022 Thomson has 14 nights in Playacar, staying at the Riu Yucatan, flying from Gatwick to Cancun, departing on 5 November, for \u00a3941pp, saving \u00a3245 on the brochure price.\u2022 Alegria Villas, which opened in late 2007, is a mile from arty Todos Santos on the Pacific coast side of Mexico's Baja California peninsula. Its two palapa-thatched villas (both sleep 2-4) offer privacy and an ocean view, not to mention 50% off until 1 November, and then 25% off until 15 Jan 2010. From $350pp for a seven night stay (saving $350pp), excluding flights. \u2022 Bales' group-escorted Treasures of Mexico journey, starting in Mexico City and ending in Canc\u00fan, via Oaxaca, Monte Alb\u00e1n, Mitla, Chiapa de Corzo, San Crist\u00f3bal de las Casas, Palenque, Campeche and M\u00e9rida, costs \u00a31,895pp for 7 November departure and \u00a32,095 for 26 December departure (both prices include a \u00a3150 discount), including flights, accommodation, breakfast and all sightseeing.\u2022 Adventure tour operator Gap Adventures is offering a 20% discount on its 15-day Mexico Ancient Civilisations tour, departing 21 November. Starting in Mexico City, the tour takes in Puebla, Oaxaca, San Crist\u00f3bal and the Mayan ruins at Palenque and Chich\u00e9n Itz\u00e1, and ends with time to snorkel, sunbathe and relax at Playa del Carmen. The price has been reduced from \u00a3539 to \u00a3431pp, and includes accommodation and transport. Excludes flights.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Late offers", "Beach holidays", "Hotels", "Winter sun", "Gap year travel", "Travel", "Budget travel"], "title": "Great deals for visitors to Mexico"},{"date": "2009-12-22T19:29:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Gay rights activists across the world consider same-sex marriage one of their toughest goals. Only seven countries permit it: Belgium, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, South Africa and Sweden. A handful of US states also allow it.But on Monday night, and despite opposition from conservatives and the Roman Catholic church, Mexico City was in the vanguard of a Latin America-wide tilt towards greater tolerance for homosexuality. The Mexican capital became the first in Latin America to allow same-sex marriage with a groundbreaking law which could set a precedent for gay rights across the region.The city's assembly passed the legislation, which will also give gay couples the right to adopt children, in a dramatic vote that triggered celebrations and chants of \"yes we can\" from activists gathered in the chamber.Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay have made recent moves towards liberalisation and debate is stirring in other countries, emboldening gays to emerge from the closet and challenge traditional macho stereotypes. The trend contrasts with recent votes against same-sex marriage in the United States, notably California, Maine and New York, which have dismayed activists.Mexico's leftist Democratic Revolution party (PRD) pushed the bill through the capital's assembly 39-20, changing the city's civil code definition of marriage from the union of a man and a woman to the \"free uniting of two people\".The change will permit same-sex couples to adopt children, apply for joint bank loans, inherit wealth and share insurance policies. It is a significant expansion of rights granted under a 2006 law allowing same-sex civil unions.The mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, a crusading leftist from the PRD, was expected to sign the measure into law, paving the way for the region's first married gay couple. Activists inside the chamber cheered and waved rainbow banners, scenes repeated outside as news spread. \"We are so happy,\" Temistocles Villanueva, a 23-year-old film student, told Associated Press, as he embraced and kissed his boyfriend.Victor Romo, a member of the mayor's party, called it a historic day. \"For centuries unjust laws banned marriage between blacks and whites or Indians and Europeans. Today all barriers have disappeared.\"Conservatives condemned the change as an affront to those who lived outside the capital's liberal bubble. Cardinal Norberto Rivera Carrera said the law was immoral and that \"innocent children\" could be adopted by gay couples. President Felipe Calder\u00f3n's National Action party said it would try to block the law.\"They have given Mexicans the most bitter Christmas,\" Armando Mart\u00ednez, the president of the College of Catholic Attorneys, told reporters. \"They are permitting adoption [by gay couples] and in one stroke of the pen have erased the term 'mother' and 'father'. \"Latin American governments have historically persecuted gay men and lesbians. Fidel Castro's Cuba as well as rightwing dictatorships were openly homophobic and punished gays as deviants from a macho ideal.Discrimination remains widespread, and the minority is still vulnerable. Walter Orlando Trochez, 27, a prominent gay and anti-coup activist in Honduras, was shot dead last week. Transgender sex workers across the region often complain of violent attacks by police and vigilantes.But in the last two decades attitudes have softened. The proportion who said they would not like to have homosexuals as neighbours plunged from 59% in 1995 to 29% this year, according to a Latinobar\u00f3metro poll taken in 18 countries across the region.\"Tolerance towards homosexuals has been the value dimension that has changed the most in the 15 years that we have been measuring,\" said Marta Lagos, the Chile-based pollster's founding director. \"The vast majority \u2013 70% \u2013 of the Latin American population tolerates homosexuals. Fifteen years ago it was the complete opposite.\"Lagos attributed the change to societies becoming more developed and people becoming more expressive. That did not mean progressive values were prevailing across the board: 36% said women should stay at home rather than work, the same proportion as in 1997. Opposition to abortion also remained high. \"It doesn't mean Latin American societies are becoming more similar to European societies,\" said the pollster.Tolerance is most visible in capitals, with the likes of Buenos Aires, Bogot\u00e1 and Mexico City boasting gay-friendly districts where same-sex couples have no fear of showing affection in public. Argentina's capital has opened Axel, Latin America's first luxury hotel aimed at gays. In a neat twist, it has declared itself \"heterosexual friendly\".Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 but conflicting judicial rulings recently stymied same-sex marriages. Several other Argentine cities, as well as Mexican and Brazilian states, also permit same-sex unions. Uruguay has become the first Latin American country to recognise such unions and permit adoption by gay couples. Colombia has granted social security rights to gay couples; its neighbour Venezuela is considering same-sex civil unions.\"Before, if you said you were gay, you were dead,\" said Alberto Rodriguez, a beautician from Venezuela. \"But now we're more accepted. We hold events, parades and fashion shows.\"Argentina Buenos Aires legalised same-sex civil unions in 2002 and was on the verge of permitting the continent's first gay marriage last month when a court forced it to be suspended. The couple about to tie the knot have vowed to fight on for the right to be \"husband and husband\".Brazil Famed as the continent's most tolerant but now lags behind neighbours on gay rights. A handful of states permit same-sex unions, and there are thriving gay scenes in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but little sign of moves towards gay marriage.Colombia In 2007 gay couples won the same social security rights as straight couples, the first nationwide law of its kind in Latin America. Allows homosexuals to include partners in health insurance plans.Mexico Mexico City this week passed a law permitting same-sex marriage. Builds on a 2006 law permitting same-sex civil unions.Uruguay In 2007 it became Latin America's first country to legalise same-sex civil unions, granting gay couples rights over inheritance, pensions and child custody. This year it scrapped military rules barring gays from the armed forces.", "tags": ["LGBT rights", "Mexico", "Civil partnerships", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "We do: Mexico City blazes trail with legalisation of same-sex marriage"},{"date": "2009-12-15T12:55:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As soldiers prepared to raid a drug cartel's Christmas party, they knew they could face a gun battle \u2013 but they were probably not expecting to face a Grammy-award winner.The accordionist, songwriter and cowboy hat enthusiast Ram\u00f3n Ayala and his band were performing at a house in a gated community of mansions outside the mountain town of Tepoztl\u00e1n, in Mexico, when soldiers raided the building.A shoot-out ensued in which three gunmen were killed. Eleven people suspected of working for the Beltr\u00e1n-Leyva cartel were detained, the Mexican navy said.The military also seized $280,000 (\u00a3222,000) in cash and 16 automatic rifles during a raid which formed part of the Mexican government's ongoing campaign to crack down on drug gangs.The country's attorney general's office said Ayala, who lives in Hidalgo, Texas, was released after being questioned on Saturday. The authorities found no grounds for charging him.The musician's website says he has \"defined\" norte\u00f1o music, which is known for its use of the accordion and bajo sexto. The style is highly popular among Mexicans, with Ayala selling an average of 750,000 records a year.Ayala, 64, has won two Latin Grammys and released more than 100 albums. He is due to host Ram\u00f3n Ayala's Christmas Posada as part of Hidalgo's Festival of Lights Christmas celebration this week.Modern norte\u00f1o genre has a darker side, with bands often singing about drug trafficking and violence. According to the Associated Press, many norte\u00f1o musicians are alleged to have performed for drug cartels.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Grammys", "Music", "Americas"], "title": "Grammy-winning star caught up in raid at Mexico drug cartel party"},{"date": "2009-12-10T08:58:31Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A plan for the ousted Honduran president, Manuel Zelaya, to leave the country for Mexico has stalled over his refusal to accept political asylum. Mexico's foreign relations department said it asked the post-coup regime to guarantee Zelaya's safe passage out of the country without being arrested on treason and abuse of power charges.Honduran officials said the regime agreed to let Zelaya go if he was willing to accept political asylum but Zelaya said he would not accept a departure under those terms.\"I want to leave as a distinguished guest, not as a political refugee like the interim government wants,\" Zelaya told Radio Globo late last night from the Brazilian embassy, where he has spent nearly three months after a failed effort to get his office back and prevent the election of his successor.The regime had been insistent Zelaya would be arrested on the charges that led to his overthrow on 28 June for ignoring a supreme court order against holding a referendum on changing the constitution. But recently it began hinting Zelaya could leave for exile or political asylum in another country.Zelaya said he was leaving to seek out a neutral site for talks with the Honduran president-elect, Porfirio Lobo.Zelaya said he wanted a negotiated solution for his departure \u2013 one \"that respected the law, and respected my office\" as president.He suggested he wanted a status that would \"allow me to continue my (political) actions abroad\". After being ousted he tried to operate a government-in-exile from other Latin American nations.\"I will not accept any political asylum,\" Zelaya said. That status might hinder his campaign to drum up opposition to the forces that removed him from the presidency.Oscar Raul Matute, the interim interior minister, said Mexico had filed paperwork asking for safe passage for Zelaya but had failed to include whether Zelaya would be recognised by Mexico as the Honduran president or as a citizen being given refuge.\"If the government of Mexico wishes to give him asylum we will consider that petition as long as it fulfills all the requirements,\" Matute told CNN en Espa\u00f1ol.Honduras's Congress, which is dominated by Zelaya's own political party, voted 111 to 14 last week month against restoring him to office to serve out his term, which ends on 27 January.The interim regime's foreign minister, Carlos Lopez, told Channel 5 television that a Mexican plane had approached Honduras late last night to fly Zelaya out of the country but that had it diverted to El Salvador. \"Honduras will only offer a safe conduct pass to Zelaya to travel to another country as a political refugee and not in any other way,\" Lopez said.A Mexican government official told the Associated Press a plane had apparently been sent or would be sent to Honduras. The official said negotiations were focused on exactly what title Zelaya would be given.On Tuesday, Porfirio Lobo, the man who won the 29 November election to replace Zelaya, said he supported amnesty for Zelaya and for all of those involved in the coup that deposed him.Although Zelaya has refused to recognise the election, Lobo has said he hopes to open dialogue with the deposed leader and start a national reconciliation process after taking office.But Lobo's options are limited. Even once he takes office, he cannot grant Zelaya amnesty from prosecution. That power belongs to the same Congress that overwhelmingly rejected reinstating Zelaya.Western hemisphere countries united to condemn Zelaya's ouster but are divided on whether to recognise Lobo's election. The US, which cut off some aid over the coup, and a few countries in Latin America have said Hondurans had the right to choose a new leader in regular elections that had been scheduled before Zelaya's overthrow.Other nations including Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela have rejected the election, saying they will not legitimise Central America's first coup in two decades.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Refugees", "Human rights", "World news", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Zelaya refuses to leave Honduras as political exile"},{"date": "2009-12-10T17:30:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A dispute over political asylum today hindered a plan to fly the ousted Honduran president Manuel Zelaya to exile in Mexico.The leftist leader was set to leave his Brazilian embassy refuge in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa, in a deal with the country's de facto rulers which would have ended an at times surreal three-month siege.The plan unravelled after Zelaya insisted that he travel to Mexico as a \"guest\" rather than asylum seeker, as the latter category would curb his efforts to be reinstated as president.He told Honduran radio he would leave on condition he could continue political activities. \"I want to leave as a distinguished guest, not as political refugee like the interim government wants.\"The de facto authorities withdrew their offer of safe passage when his terms became clear. There would be no further talks with Mexico and Brazil unless Zelaya accepted asylum, said Rene Zepeda, the information minister.\"If these countries want to get Zelaya out of Honduras, they will have to do it according to the law: by giving him asylum in their territories, but without a title. If that happens, our government will accept that and they can take him immediately without any problem.\"A Mexican government jet which was on its way to fetch the president was redirected to neighbouring El Salvador.Brazil condemned the de facto government's stance as an attempt to humiliate Zelaya. \"It is totally unacceptable,\" said the foreign minister, Celso Amorim.The fiasco is the latest twist in a crisis which has bedevilled Latin America since soldiers rousted Zelaya from his bed on 28 June and bundled him into exile. The traditional ruling elite \u2013 the army, congress and the supreme court \u2013 had become alarmed at the president's alliance with Venezuela's socialist leader, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez.Zelaya snuck back into Honduras in September and surfaced at the Brazilian embassy. Security forces surrounded it, blasted music and recorded pig grunts, and dispersed pro-Zelaya supporters with clubs, teargas and water cannons, leaving the president marooned in his diplomatic refuge.His options have dwindled since a 29 November election cemented the coup as a political reality and chose a new president, Porfirio Lobo, who is due to be inaugurated next month. Congress rejected a proposal to allow Zelaya's temporary return to power to hand over the presidential sash.Brazil, Venezuela and other leftist governments in the region said they would not recognise the election but the US and several Latin American governments signalled they would work with Lobo, leaving Zelaya marginalised.A way out of the impasse seemed imminent last night when soldiers began clearing barriers from around the Brazilian embassy. The de facto regime said it would overlook corruption and treason charges to allow the president to leave.Zelaya said he would take the opportunity to leave Honduras \u2013 with his wife and two children \u2013 and seek a neutral site for a meeting with Lobo to \"find a peaceful solution to the situation in the country\". The president-elect has proposed an amnesty for Zelaya and the coup-plotters who deposed him.Before the exile deal collapsed Zelaya was reportedly expecting to meet Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, and to attend a summit of leftist leaders in Cuba.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Manuel Zelaya refuses to leave Honduras as asylum seeker"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-01-31T00:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On Christmas Eve in Mexico I tried to pay a restaurant bill with my Capital\u00ad One card. The terminal rejected the card three times. I persuaded the manager to phone the bank. After 45 minutes answering security questions,\u00ad he got irate. He accused me of wasting their time. At 1am he called the police, who took my passport and driving licence and escorted me to my hotel. I phoned Capital One. It said the card was fine and it was the restaurant's problem. Police took me to a cash machine to pay the bill. I moved on to Los Angeles where I\u00a0discovered another restaurant bill in Mexico had been charged twice to my credit card. Capital One said I\u00a0had to sort it out with the restaurant, even though I was now in the US. SK, BrightonCapital One has listened to your phone calls and apologises for poor service. It says the restaurant's card terminal was issuing invalid authorisation requests and blames the manager's poor English for failing to sort it out. It admits it should have accepted the language problem sooner, and told you to use a different method of paying.It also apologies for not being more helpful when you phoned about the duplicate charge. It has refunded the overpayment, refunded the cost of the international calls and offered you \u00a3100 compensation for the distress.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Credit cards", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "No capital service in Mexican restaurant"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-01-31T00:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On Christmas Eve in Mexico I tried to pay a restaurant bill with my Capital\u00ad One card. The terminal rejected the card three times. I persuaded the manager to phone the bank. After 45 minutes answering security questions,\u00ad he got irate. He accused me of wasting their time. At 1am he called the police, who took my passport and driving licence and escorted me to my hotel. I phoned Capital One. It said the card was fine and it was the restaurant's problem. Police took me to a cash machine to pay the bill. I moved on to Los Angeles where I\u00a0discovered another restaurant bill in Mexico had been charged twice to my credit card. Capital One said I\u00a0had to sort it out with the restaurant, even though I was now in the US. SK, BrightonCapital One has listened to your phone calls and apologises for poor service. It says the restaurant's card terminal was issuing invalid authorisation requests and blames the manager's poor English for failing to sort it out. It admits it should have accepted the language problem sooner, and told you to use a different method of paying.It also apologies for not being more helpful when you phoned about the duplicate charge. It has refunded the overpayment, refunded the cost of the international calls and offered you \u00a3100 compensation for the distress.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Credit cards", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "No capital service in Mexican restaurant"},{"date": "2010-01-04T16:42:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Climate change scepticism is likely to surge in 2010 and could exacerbate \"hardship\" for the planet's poorest people, one of the world's leading authorities on climate change has told the Guardian.Writing on environmenttheguardian.com today, Rajendra Pachauri, the chair of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also dismisses suggestions that he is personally profiting from policies to tackle global warming.Climate sceptics gained media attention in the run up to the Copenhagen climate summit after alleging that hacked emails between senior climate scientists showed that an important temperature record was flawed \u2014 a charge rejected by governments and scientific bodies. In Australia, sceptics within the party led to the ousting of the leader of the opposition over new climate laws.Pachauri predicted this year would see further scepticism. \"Powerful vested interests are perhaps likely to get overactive in the coming months, and would perhaps do everything in their power to impede progress towards a binding agreement that is hoped for by the end of 2010 in Mexico,\" he said. \"Those opposed to action on climate change are working overtime to see that they can stall action for as long as possible.\"After a weak deal in Copenhagen, Pachauri warned that allowing scepticism to delay international action on global warming would endanger the lives of the world's poorest people. \"In the end, knowledge and science will undoubtedly triumph, but delay in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases would only lead to worse impacts of climate change and growing hardship for the most vulnerable regions in the world, which are also unfortunately some of the poorest communities on Earth.\"Pachauri, a vegetarian, has previously described western lifestyles as unsustainable and advocated a diet including one meat-free day a week. He singled out lobbyists in the US for attempting to delay America's climate legislation, which is crucial for a global deal but is currently stalled in the Senate. Last year the Centre for Public Integrity found that 770 companies and interest groups hired an estimated 2,340 lobbyists to influence US policies on climate change, while America's oil, gas and coal industry increased its lobbying budget by 50%.Pachauri said action from President Obama would be needed on top of Senate legislation. \"The passage of legislation in that country [the US] will have to be supplemented with several initiatives to be put in place by the executive branch of the government,\" Pachauri said.Bob Ward, policy and communications director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, said Pachauri was right on the level of sceptical activity. \"We are already witnessing extraordinary efforts by powerful lobbies, in the US and Australia in particular, which are opposed to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. There is a strong alliance of ideologically driven right-wingers, who reject environmental legislation on principle, and lobbyists for some hydrocarbon companies, who place the short-term commercial interests of their clients ahead of the wider public interest. Both have the common goal of delaying restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, and both use the tactics pioneered by the tobacco industry, hiding their true motivations behind inaccurate and misleading claims about uncertainties in the science.\"But Tony Kreindler of the Environmental Defence Fund, which has been following US climate legislation, said the number of climate sceptic lobbyists was now being matched by companies supporting legislation to cap carbon emissions. However, he added: \"Opponents of action and the old sceptics will of course ramp up their lobbying this year as well, as they do anytime the Congress is on the verge of making law. We already have a bill through the House of Representatives and a bipartisan effort underway in the Senate. The President made his commitment clear in Copenhagen to legislation because it's in our national interest. This year is not a dress rehearsal, and everyone on both sides gets that.\"On the stolen emails, Pachauri said the contents did not impact on climate science, adding that \"the allegations made on the basis of the stolen emails have proved incorrect.\"The University of East Anglia is currently undertaking an independent review of the hacking incident, led by senior civil servant Sir Muir Russell. The review is expected to be published in the spring, but a university spokesman said today that Sir Russell will \"determine his final timescale after completing his initial scoping exercise\". He added that the university had also responded to a letter from the science and technology committee of MPs asking for an explanation of the incident. The IPCC is conducting its own review into the stolen emails.Pachauri also rebutted claims in The Sunday Telegraph that, through advisory roles for Deutsche Bank, Toyota, Yale University, the Asian Development Bank and others, he was reaping personal financial gain from climate change policies that could be influenced by the reports of the IPCC he chairs. The article claimed Pachauri had been silent on the \"highly lucrative commercial jobs\", the rewards from which \"must run into millions\".In response, he said: \"The same group of climate deniers who have been active across the Atlantic have now joined hands to attack me personally. As for pecuniary benefits from advice that I may be rendering to profit-making organisations, these payments are all made directly to my institute, without a single penny being received by me.\"The Nobel Peace-prize winning Pachauri called for greater activism and more campaigning to press governments into taking strong action on carbon emissions this year. \"Society and grassroots action would have to come into their own, not only to ensure that human society takes responsibility for action at the most basic level, but also to create upward pressure on governments to act decisively. If such grassroots efforts do not spread and intensify, nation states may not be able to resolve the differences that exist between them.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Rajendra Pachauri", "Canc\u00fan climate change conference 2010 | COP16"], "title": "Climate change scepticism will increase hardship for world's poor: IPCC chief"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-01-31T00:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On Christmas Eve in Mexico I tried to pay a restaurant bill with my Capital\u00ad One card. The terminal rejected the card three times. I persuaded the manager to phone the bank. After 45 minutes answering security questions,\u00ad he got irate. He accused me of wasting their time. At 1am he called the police, who took my passport and driving licence and escorted me to my hotel. I phoned Capital One. It said the card was fine and it was the restaurant's problem. Police took me to a cash machine to pay the bill. I moved on to Los Angeles where I\u00a0discovered another restaurant bill in Mexico had been charged twice to my credit card. Capital One said I\u00a0had to sort it out with the restaurant, even though I was now in the US. SK, BrightonCapital One has listened to your phone calls and apologises for poor service. It says the restaurant's card terminal was issuing invalid authorisation requests and blames the manager's poor English for failing to sort it out. It admits it should have accepted the language problem sooner, and told you to use a different method of paying.It also apologies for not being more helpful when you phoned about the duplicate charge. It has refunded the overpayment, refunded the cost of the international calls and offered you \u00a3100 compensation for the distress.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Credit cards", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "No capital service in Mexican restaurant"},{"date": "2010-01-04T16:42:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Climate change scepticism is likely to surge in 2010 and could exacerbate \"hardship\" for the planet's poorest people, one of the world's leading authorities on climate change has told the Guardian.Writing on environmenttheguardian.com today, Rajendra Pachauri, the chair of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also dismisses suggestions that he is personally profiting from policies to tackle global warming.Climate sceptics gained media attention in the run up to the Copenhagen climate summit after alleging that hacked emails between senior climate scientists showed that an important temperature record was flawed \u2014 a charge rejected by governments and scientific bodies. In Australia, sceptics within the party led to the ousting of the leader of the opposition over new climate laws.Pachauri predicted this year would see further scepticism. \"Powerful vested interests are perhaps likely to get overactive in the coming months, and would perhaps do everything in their power to impede progress towards a binding agreement that is hoped for by the end of 2010 in Mexico,\" he said. \"Those opposed to action on climate change are working overtime to see that they can stall action for as long as possible.\"After a weak deal in Copenhagen, Pachauri warned that allowing scepticism to delay international action on global warming would endanger the lives of the world's poorest people. \"In the end, knowledge and science will undoubtedly triumph, but delay in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases would only lead to worse impacts of climate change and growing hardship for the most vulnerable regions in the world, which are also unfortunately some of the poorest communities on Earth.\"Pachauri, a vegetarian, has previously described western lifestyles as unsustainable and advocated a diet including one meat-free day a week. He singled out lobbyists in the US for attempting to delay America's climate legislation, which is crucial for a global deal but is currently stalled in the Senate. Last year the Centre for Public Integrity found that 770 companies and interest groups hired an estimated 2,340 lobbyists to influence US policies on climate change, while America's oil, gas and coal industry increased its lobbying budget by 50%.Pachauri said action from President Obama would be needed on top of Senate legislation. \"The passage of legislation in that country [the US] will have to be supplemented with several initiatives to be put in place by the executive branch of the government,\" Pachauri said.Bob Ward, policy and communications director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, said Pachauri was right on the level of sceptical activity. \"We are already witnessing extraordinary efforts by powerful lobbies, in the US and Australia in particular, which are opposed to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. There is a strong alliance of ideologically driven right-wingers, who reject environmental legislation on principle, and lobbyists for some hydrocarbon companies, who place the short-term commercial interests of their clients ahead of the wider public interest. Both have the common goal of delaying restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, and both use the tactics pioneered by the tobacco industry, hiding their true motivations behind inaccurate and misleading claims about uncertainties in the science.\"But Tony Kreindler of the Environmental Defence Fund, which has been following US climate legislation, said the number of climate sceptic lobbyists was now being matched by companies supporting legislation to cap carbon emissions. However, he added: \"Opponents of action and the old sceptics will of course ramp up their lobbying this year as well, as they do anytime the Congress is on the verge of making law. We already have a bill through the House of Representatives and a bipartisan effort underway in the Senate. The President made his commitment clear in Copenhagen to legislation because it's in our national interest. This year is not a dress rehearsal, and everyone on both sides gets that.\"On the stolen emails, Pachauri said the contents did not impact on climate science, adding that \"the allegations made on the basis of the stolen emails have proved incorrect.\"The University of East Anglia is currently undertaking an independent review of the hacking incident, led by senior civil servant Sir Muir Russell. The review is expected to be published in the spring, but a university spokesman said today that Sir Russell will \"determine his final timescale after completing his initial scoping exercise\". He added that the university had also responded to a letter from the science and technology committee of MPs asking for an explanation of the incident. The IPCC is conducting its own review into the stolen emails.Pachauri also rebutted claims in The Sunday Telegraph that, through advisory roles for Deutsche Bank, Toyota, Yale University, the Asian Development Bank and others, he was reaping personal financial gain from climate change policies that could be influenced by the reports of the IPCC he chairs. The article claimed Pachauri had been silent on the \"highly lucrative commercial jobs\", the rewards from which \"must run into millions\".In response, he said: \"The same group of climate deniers who have been active across the Atlantic have now joined hands to attack me personally. As for pecuniary benefits from advice that I may be rendering to profit-making organisations, these payments are all made directly to my institute, without a single penny being received by me.\"The Nobel Peace-prize winning Pachauri called for greater activism and more campaigning to press governments into taking strong action on carbon emissions this year. \"Society and grassroots action would have to come into their own, not only to ensure that human society takes responsibility for action at the most basic level, but also to create upward pressure on governments to act decisively. If such grassroots efforts do not spread and intensify, nation states may not be able to resolve the differences that exist between them.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Rajendra Pachauri", "Canc\u00fan climate change conference 2010 | COP16"], "title": "Climate change scepticism will increase hardship for world's poor: IPCC chief"},{"date": "2010-03-11T08:58:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has unveiled plans for a $7bn spending spree in the Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico.It has agreed to pay that amount to US producer Devon Energy for assets in the region which will help it meet its production growth target and also give it entry into Brazil. At the same time BP is selling Devon a 50% stake in its Kirby oil sands venture in Canada for $500m. Analysts said it was difficult to tell whether BP was paying a good price since the assets included fields which were still being explored. In addition the Brazil operations are in the Campos basin, rather than Santos where some major discoveries have been made.So BP's shares have slipped 5.3p to 619.6p, knocking nearly 4 points off the FTSE 100. Overall the leading index is pausing for breath after its recent gains, falling 18.05 points to 5622.52. Owen Ireland at ODL Securities said:The markets are taking a breather and it appears that traders are using this time to plot the next move. There is an air of uneasiness \u2013 the run up has slowed, and has almost come to a standstill. It feels as if we are at a pivotal point of the year \u2013 will the run continue, or are we set for a leg down?\"Other fallers included Smith and Nephew. The medical equipment group is down 21p to 674.5p after news last night that a US court had ruled against the company and in favour of Kinetic Concepts in a patent dispute. S&N said it would seek to overturn the ruling.Insurer Old Mutual has fallen 2.6p to 121p after it announced a shake-up including disposing of its US life and asset management businesses via a sale and flotation respectively, to reduce its debt by \u00a31.5bn. Eamonn Flanagan at Shore Capital said:The issue is that the group remains highly vulnerable to market conditions both in terms of the likelihood of disposals and IPO (proceeds to be used to pay down debt) but also on the issues in its Bermuda business. Hence, despite the 32% discount to our 2010 forecast MCEV net asset value of 180p, we reiterate our hold recommendation.", "tags": ["BP", "Business", "Smith and Nephew", "Old Mutual"], "title": "BP's slide after $7bn deal helps drag FTSE lower"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-01-31T00:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On Christmas Eve in Mexico I tried to pay a restaurant bill with my Capital\u00ad One card. The terminal rejected the card three times. I persuaded the manager to phone the bank. After 45 minutes answering security questions,\u00ad he got irate. He accused me of wasting their time. At 1am he called the police, who took my passport and driving licence and escorted me to my hotel. I phoned Capital One. It said the card was fine and it was the restaurant's problem. Police took me to a cash machine to pay the bill. I moved on to Los Angeles where I\u00a0discovered another restaurant bill in Mexico had been charged twice to my credit card. Capital One said I\u00a0had to sort it out with the restaurant, even though I was now in the US. SK, BrightonCapital One has listened to your phone calls and apologises for poor service. It says the restaurant's card terminal was issuing invalid authorisation requests and blames the manager's poor English for failing to sort it out. It admits it should have accepted the language problem sooner, and told you to use a different method of paying.It also apologies for not being more helpful when you phoned about the duplicate charge. It has refunded the overpayment, refunded the cost of the international calls and offered you \u00a3100 compensation for the distress.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Credit cards", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "No capital service in Mexican restaurant"},{"date": "2010-01-04T16:42:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Climate change scepticism is likely to surge in 2010 and could exacerbate \"hardship\" for the planet's poorest people, one of the world's leading authorities on climate change has told the Guardian.Writing on environmenttheguardian.com today, Rajendra Pachauri, the chair of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also dismisses suggestions that he is personally profiting from policies to tackle global warming.Climate sceptics gained media attention in the run up to the Copenhagen climate summit after alleging that hacked emails between senior climate scientists showed that an important temperature record was flawed \u2014 a charge rejected by governments and scientific bodies. In Australia, sceptics within the party led to the ousting of the leader of the opposition over new climate laws.Pachauri predicted this year would see further scepticism. \"Powerful vested interests are perhaps likely to get overactive in the coming months, and would perhaps do everything in their power to impede progress towards a binding agreement that is hoped for by the end of 2010 in Mexico,\" he said. \"Those opposed to action on climate change are working overtime to see that they can stall action for as long as possible.\"After a weak deal in Copenhagen, Pachauri warned that allowing scepticism to delay international action on global warming would endanger the lives of the world's poorest people. \"In the end, knowledge and science will undoubtedly triumph, but delay in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases would only lead to worse impacts of climate change and growing hardship for the most vulnerable regions in the world, which are also unfortunately some of the poorest communities on Earth.\"Pachauri, a vegetarian, has previously described western lifestyles as unsustainable and advocated a diet including one meat-free day a week. He singled out lobbyists in the US for attempting to delay America's climate legislation, which is crucial for a global deal but is currently stalled in the Senate. Last year the Centre for Public Integrity found that 770 companies and interest groups hired an estimated 2,340 lobbyists to influence US policies on climate change, while America's oil, gas and coal industry increased its lobbying budget by 50%.Pachauri said action from President Obama would be needed on top of Senate legislation. \"The passage of legislation in that country [the US] will have to be supplemented with several initiatives to be put in place by the executive branch of the government,\" Pachauri said.Bob Ward, policy and communications director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, said Pachauri was right on the level of sceptical activity. \"We are already witnessing extraordinary efforts by powerful lobbies, in the US and Australia in particular, which are opposed to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. There is a strong alliance of ideologically driven right-wingers, who reject environmental legislation on principle, and lobbyists for some hydrocarbon companies, who place the short-term commercial interests of their clients ahead of the wider public interest. Both have the common goal of delaying restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, and both use the tactics pioneered by the tobacco industry, hiding their true motivations behind inaccurate and misleading claims about uncertainties in the science.\"But Tony Kreindler of the Environmental Defence Fund, which has been following US climate legislation, said the number of climate sceptic lobbyists was now being matched by companies supporting legislation to cap carbon emissions. However, he added: \"Opponents of action and the old sceptics will of course ramp up their lobbying this year as well, as they do anytime the Congress is on the verge of making law. We already have a bill through the House of Representatives and a bipartisan effort underway in the Senate. The President made his commitment clear in Copenhagen to legislation because it's in our national interest. This year is not a dress rehearsal, and everyone on both sides gets that.\"On the stolen emails, Pachauri said the contents did not impact on climate science, adding that \"the allegations made on the basis of the stolen emails have proved incorrect.\"The University of East Anglia is currently undertaking an independent review of the hacking incident, led by senior civil servant Sir Muir Russell. The review is expected to be published in the spring, but a university spokesman said today that Sir Russell will \"determine his final timescale after completing his initial scoping exercise\". He added that the university had also responded to a letter from the science and technology committee of MPs asking for an explanation of the incident. The IPCC is conducting its own review into the stolen emails.Pachauri also rebutted claims in The Sunday Telegraph that, through advisory roles for Deutsche Bank, Toyota, Yale University, the Asian Development Bank and others, he was reaping personal financial gain from climate change policies that could be influenced by the reports of the IPCC he chairs. The article claimed Pachauri had been silent on the \"highly lucrative commercial jobs\", the rewards from which \"must run into millions\".In response, he said: \"The same group of climate deniers who have been active across the Atlantic have now joined hands to attack me personally. As for pecuniary benefits from advice that I may be rendering to profit-making organisations, these payments are all made directly to my institute, without a single penny being received by me.\"The Nobel Peace-prize winning Pachauri called for greater activism and more campaigning to press governments into taking strong action on carbon emissions this year. \"Society and grassroots action would have to come into their own, not only to ensure that human society takes responsibility for action at the most basic level, but also to create upward pressure on governments to act decisively. If such grassroots efforts do not spread and intensify, nation states may not be able to resolve the differences that exist between them.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Rajendra Pachauri", "Canc\u00fan climate change conference 2010 | COP16"], "title": "Climate change scepticism will increase hardship for world's poor: IPCC chief"},{"date": "2010-03-11T08:58:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has unveiled plans for a $7bn spending spree in the Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico.It has agreed to pay that amount to US producer Devon Energy for assets in the region which will help it meet its production growth target and also give it entry into Brazil. At the same time BP is selling Devon a 50% stake in its Kirby oil sands venture in Canada for $500m. Analysts said it was difficult to tell whether BP was paying a good price since the assets included fields which were still being explored. In addition the Brazil operations are in the Campos basin, rather than Santos where some major discoveries have been made.So BP's shares have slipped 5.3p to 619.6p, knocking nearly 4 points off the FTSE 100. Overall the leading index is pausing for breath after its recent gains, falling 18.05 points to 5622.52. Owen Ireland at ODL Securities said:The markets are taking a breather and it appears that traders are using this time to plot the next move. There is an air of uneasiness \u2013 the run up has slowed, and has almost come to a standstill. It feels as if we are at a pivotal point of the year \u2013 will the run continue, or are we set for a leg down?\"Other fallers included Smith and Nephew. The medical equipment group is down 21p to 674.5p after news last night that a US court had ruled against the company and in favour of Kinetic Concepts in a patent dispute. S&N said it would seek to overturn the ruling.Insurer Old Mutual has fallen 2.6p to 121p after it announced a shake-up including disposing of its US life and asset management businesses via a sale and flotation respectively, to reduce its debt by \u00a31.5bn. Eamonn Flanagan at Shore Capital said:The issue is that the group remains highly vulnerable to market conditions both in terms of the likelihood of disposals and IPO (proceeds to be used to pay down debt) but also on the issues in its Bermuda business. Hence, despite the 32% discount to our 2010 forecast MCEV net asset value of 180p, we reiterate our hold recommendation.", "tags": ["BP", "Business", "Smith and Nephew", "Old Mutual"], "title": "BP's slide after $7bn deal helps drag FTSE lower"},{"date": "2010-03-19T14:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\"Do I really, seriously have to explain that I don't believe that all Muslims have lasers in their eyes? I hope not,\" said would-be New Mexico candidate for Congress Adam Kokesh last week. He was referring to a flier he had helped produce and distribute in 2007 on the campus of George Washington University mocking Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week.The headline read, \"Hate Muslims? So Do We!!!\" The flier helpfully explained that the \"typical Muslim\" has \"lasers in eyes, venom from mouth, hatred for women, suicide vest, hidden AK-47, [and a] peg leg for smuggling children and heroin.\" Students who wanted to find out more were told to \"come to Islamo-Fascism awareness week\" put on by GWU's Young America's Foundation. The supposed sponsors of the flier were \"Students for Conservativo-Fascism Awareness.\"The intent of the flier is clear enough: to ridicule YAF's efforts. Yet when it was distributed around campus, powerhouse conservative pundit Michelle Malkin called it a \"fake hate crime\". Last week she wrote on her blog that Kokesh and company had \"weaseled out of the attacks by claiming they were 'satire.'\"But they were satire, if slightly sophomoric. Kokesh said that he was motivated to jab at YAF because he thought their event \"was really just part of the general government fear tactics of saying, If you don't give us more power, and give up more civil liberties, and pay us more taxes and put more power in the executive branch of the federal government, terrorists are\" \u2013 gross exaggeration alert \u2013 \"going to jump out of your television set and kill you and then subject you to sharia law.\"\"When people are trying to raise a spectre of fear like that,\" Kokesh said, \"satire is a good way to punch through it.\" Now the offended parties are punching back.Malkin wrote that the organisation that Kokesh is part of, Iraq Veterans Against the War, had a membership that included \"bomb-threat bullies and death-threat nutballs who threatened to assassinate me,\" as well as \"fake army vet Jesse MacBeth\". She charged that Kokesh was \"arrested for defacing signs and travelled to Germany to urge soldiers to abandon their posts \u2026 He is an anti-war smear merchant in GOP clothing.\"Kokesh, a retired marine who was involved in the first battle of Fallujah, denied the charges. Of his arrest in 2007, he said, \"We were actually putting up posters. We weren't defacing anything. And we were doing it very deliberately in line with the code of the District of Columbia. And we were arrested for political reasons, then acquitted.\" I pressed him on the question of troop desertion:Q: If a soldier is out in the field and he all of the sudden decided that this war in unconstitutional, does he have an obligation to desert his post?A: No, no, no, no! But to raise the issue, and if he feels the need, in conscience, to say, \"I'm not going to participate anymore\" there is a legal way to do that under the [Uniform Code of Military Justice]. But, no. We've never said \"Walk away from your post.\" That's a gross distortion of what we're talking about here and something I've never advocated.Kokesh said that he understood why Malkin was angry and talked of the death threats that his own advocacy has provoked. He had, he told me, voted to kick the veteran who threatened her with a \"fatwa\" out of Iraq Veterans Against the War. And he generally deplored the times when his fellow anti-war veterans threaten their critics. He called it both wrong and counterproductive.But heading into the New Mexico state GOP nominating convention last weekend, Kokesh refused to give an inch. \"I'm running for office to continue my oath to the constitution that I swore when I joined the Marine Corps,\" he said. He aims to \"take all the powers\" the federal government has \"taken on illegally\" and \"at very least, restore a republican form of government.\"Some polling indicates that Kokesh has a shot to win the seat currently held by Democrat Ben Ray Luj\u00e1n, but first he has to get the nomination and that could be a problem with prominent conservatives like Malkin pushing against him. \"Obviously I'm not a party line Republican,\" said Kokesh, in the understatement of the week.", "tags": ["Republicans", "US politics", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Adam Kokesh, anti-war Republican | Jeremy Lott"},{"date": "2010-02-01T01:02:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A gang of heavily armed men stormed a party inside a house in the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez killing 13 teenagers in the early hours of yesterday morning. A \u00adfurther 17 young people were injured in the attack, which was apparently a mistaken drugs hit.The gunmen arrived in a convoy of up to seven 4x4s, according to local reports. While some gunmen closed off surrounding streets, others burst into the party and started shooting to kill.There were conflicting reports as to whether the victims were celebrating victory in a local American Football championship, or had gathered to watch a boxing match. It was unclear last night as to why they were targeted, but it was immediately assumed the attack was by one of the drug trafficking gangs struggling for supremacy in the city.\"The men were well-armed. They went into the house and shot at everyone, you could hear the gunfire all around,\" a neighbour said.Army spokesman Enrique Torres said the dead were from 15 to 20 years old, and an additional 17 party-goers were wounded, some critically. \"They were about 15 men, they closed off the surrounding streets and began shooting at the house as they moved inside,\" he said.Witnesses of the slaughter told the Associated Press they thought those behind the attack were acting on false information.\"It must have been a huge mistake,\" said Martha Lujan, who lives nearby.Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez is just across the US border from El Paso in Texas, and is the bloodiest front in the turf wars raging around Mexico, which intensified following a government offensive launched three years ago. More than 16,000 have died since in related violence. Last year, more than 2,000 people were killed in Ju\u00e1rez, about a third of the national total.The city has also had Mexico's heaviest military presence, with 10,000 soldiers patrolling the streets for most of last year. Last month the government announced it was reducing the number of soldiers present and increasing the number of federal police officers in the city. The killing has continued regardless.Most victims in Ju\u00e1rez die in ones or twos, often small-time dealers associated with one gang and killed by a rival gang. But the \u00adarbitrariness of much of the \u00adviolence has been underlined by a growing number of deaths with no apparent link to the \u00adunderworld. There have also been periodic massacres, such as two attacks on drug rehabilitation clinics in September last year which left 28 dead.Another witness to yesterday's massacre, who only gave his first name, Hector, because he feared retaliation, said he was just outside when the gunfire broke out. He said the party was an innocuous gathering of friends targeted in error. \"I think there was some confusion,\" he said. \"We're seeking justice.\"The ongoing drug feuds in Ju\u00e1rez are said to be caused by the Sinaloa cartel trying to out-muscle the Ju\u00e1rez cartel at one of the most important points for smuggling drugs into the US. In the 1990s, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel was the most powerful trafficker, but in recent years its influence has waned. The Sinaloa cartel is led by Mexico's most infamous trafficker of the moment, Joaquin El Chapo Guzman.In other drug violence elsewhere yesterday, 20 gunmen attacked a police station in the Pacific port city of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas with grenades and assault rifles, killing a police officer and a mother and her son who were in the building to pay a fine.Further north, in the city of Navolato, the bodies of three women and two men were found in their vehicle, which was riddled with bulletholes.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas"], "title": "13 teenagers shot dead as gunmen burst into party in Mexico border city"},{"date": "2010-01-16T00:06:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The darkly surreal edge that saturates both comedy and tragedy in Mexican cinema is a constant source of delight, and there's plenty of it on show in this season of contemporary Mexican talent. Rollicking circus black comedy Meet The Head Of Juan P\u00e9rez, for example, revolves around a magician's unfortunate decapitation, while in Rodrigo Pla's art-and animation-suffused The Desert Within, a peasant attempts to thwart a government ban on religion. There's also Daniel And Ana, a shocking tale of kidnapped siblings, and Five Days Without Nora, a heart-warming take on a well-organised suicide.Barbican Screen, EC2, Thu to 27 Jan Whether it's a twirl of Chaplin's cane, fisticuffs between Laurel and Hardy or a cartoon anvil falling on an unsuspecting cartoon head, chances are you're a secret, or not-so-secret, lover of slapstick comedy. And why not? As this sixth slapstick silent comedy festival proves, it's as popular today as ever. Catch up on the comedy that never went out of style with some classic Laurel and Hardy shorts, Ren\u00e9 Clair's brilliant 1928 screwball comedy The Italian Straw Hat, and documentaries on bygone impresarios such as Fred Karno, Will Hay and even Kenny Everett, usually with live musical accompaniment. There are also gala events in which national treasure Michael Palin discusses his career alongside a screening of Buster Keaton classic The Navigator, and Python/Rutles/Bonzo Dog co-conspirator Neil Innes is honoured with a new documentary, aptly titled The Seventh Python.Various venues, Thu to 24 Jan, visit slapstick.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "This week's cinema events"},{"date": "2010-01-31T00:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On Christmas Eve in Mexico I tried to pay a restaurant bill with my Capital\u00ad One card. The terminal rejected the card three times. I persuaded the manager to phone the bank. After 45 minutes answering security questions,\u00ad he got irate. He accused me of wasting their time. At 1am he called the police, who took my passport and driving licence and escorted me to my hotel. I phoned Capital One. It said the card was fine and it was the restaurant's problem. Police took me to a cash machine to pay the bill. I moved on to Los Angeles where I\u00a0discovered another restaurant bill in Mexico had been charged twice to my credit card. Capital One said I\u00a0had to sort it out with the restaurant, even though I was now in the US. SK, BrightonCapital One has listened to your phone calls and apologises for poor service. It says the restaurant's card terminal was issuing invalid authorisation requests and blames the manager's poor English for failing to sort it out. It admits it should have accepted the language problem sooner, and told you to use a different method of paying.It also apologies for not being more helpful when you phoned about the duplicate charge. It has refunded the overpayment, refunded the cost of the international calls and offered you \u00a3100 compensation for the distress.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Credit cards", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "No capital service in Mexican restaurant"},{"date": "2010-01-04T16:42:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Climate change scepticism is likely to surge in 2010 and could exacerbate \"hardship\" for the planet's poorest people, one of the world's leading authorities on climate change has told the Guardian.Writing on environmenttheguardian.com today, Rajendra Pachauri, the chair of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also dismisses suggestions that he is personally profiting from policies to tackle global warming.Climate sceptics gained media attention in the run up to the Copenhagen climate summit after alleging that hacked emails between senior climate scientists showed that an important temperature record was flawed \u2014 a charge rejected by governments and scientific bodies. In Australia, sceptics within the party led to the ousting of the leader of the opposition over new climate laws.Pachauri predicted this year would see further scepticism. \"Powerful vested interests are perhaps likely to get overactive in the coming months, and would perhaps do everything in their power to impede progress towards a binding agreement that is hoped for by the end of 2010 in Mexico,\" he said. \"Those opposed to action on climate change are working overtime to see that they can stall action for as long as possible.\"After a weak deal in Copenhagen, Pachauri warned that allowing scepticism to delay international action on global warming would endanger the lives of the world's poorest people. \"In the end, knowledge and science will undoubtedly triumph, but delay in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases would only lead to worse impacts of climate change and growing hardship for the most vulnerable regions in the world, which are also unfortunately some of the poorest communities on Earth.\"Pachauri, a vegetarian, has previously described western lifestyles as unsustainable and advocated a diet including one meat-free day a week. He singled out lobbyists in the US for attempting to delay America's climate legislation, which is crucial for a global deal but is currently stalled in the Senate. Last year the Centre for Public Integrity found that 770 companies and interest groups hired an estimated 2,340 lobbyists to influence US policies on climate change, while America's oil, gas and coal industry increased its lobbying budget by 50%.Pachauri said action from President Obama would be needed on top of Senate legislation. \"The passage of legislation in that country [the US] will have to be supplemented with several initiatives to be put in place by the executive branch of the government,\" Pachauri said.Bob Ward, policy and communications director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, said Pachauri was right on the level of sceptical activity. \"We are already witnessing extraordinary efforts by powerful lobbies, in the US and Australia in particular, which are opposed to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. There is a strong alliance of ideologically driven right-wingers, who reject environmental legislation on principle, and lobbyists for some hydrocarbon companies, who place the short-term commercial interests of their clients ahead of the wider public interest. Both have the common goal of delaying restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, and both use the tactics pioneered by the tobacco industry, hiding their true motivations behind inaccurate and misleading claims about uncertainties in the science.\"But Tony Kreindler of the Environmental Defence Fund, which has been following US climate legislation, said the number of climate sceptic lobbyists was now being matched by companies supporting legislation to cap carbon emissions. However, he added: \"Opponents of action and the old sceptics will of course ramp up their lobbying this year as well, as they do anytime the Congress is on the verge of making law. We already have a bill through the House of Representatives and a bipartisan effort underway in the Senate. The President made his commitment clear in Copenhagen to legislation because it's in our national interest. This year is not a dress rehearsal, and everyone on both sides gets that.\"On the stolen emails, Pachauri said the contents did not impact on climate science, adding that \"the allegations made on the basis of the stolen emails have proved incorrect.\"The University of East Anglia is currently undertaking an independent review of the hacking incident, led by senior civil servant Sir Muir Russell. The review is expected to be published in the spring, but a university spokesman said today that Sir Russell will \"determine his final timescale after completing his initial scoping exercise\". He added that the university had also responded to a letter from the science and technology committee of MPs asking for an explanation of the incident. The IPCC is conducting its own review into the stolen emails.Pachauri also rebutted claims in The Sunday Telegraph that, through advisory roles for Deutsche Bank, Toyota, Yale University, the Asian Development Bank and others, he was reaping personal financial gain from climate change policies that could be influenced by the reports of the IPCC he chairs. The article claimed Pachauri had been silent on the \"highly lucrative commercial jobs\", the rewards from which \"must run into millions\".In response, he said: \"The same group of climate deniers who have been active across the Atlantic have now joined hands to attack me personally. As for pecuniary benefits from advice that I may be rendering to profit-making organisations, these payments are all made directly to my institute, without a single penny being received by me.\"The Nobel Peace-prize winning Pachauri called for greater activism and more campaigning to press governments into taking strong action on carbon emissions this year. \"Society and grassroots action would have to come into their own, not only to ensure that human society takes responsibility for action at the most basic level, but also to create upward pressure on governments to act decisively. If such grassroots efforts do not spread and intensify, nation states may not be able to resolve the differences that exist between them.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Global climate talks", "Rajendra Pachauri", "Canc\u00fan climate change conference 2010 | COP16"], "title": "Climate change scepticism will increase hardship for world's poor: IPCC chief"},{"date": "2010-03-11T08:58:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has unveiled plans for a $7bn spending spree in the Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico.It has agreed to pay that amount to US producer Devon Energy for assets in the region which will help it meet its production growth target and also give it entry into Brazil. At the same time BP is selling Devon a 50% stake in its Kirby oil sands venture in Canada for $500m. Analysts said it was difficult to tell whether BP was paying a good price since the assets included fields which were still being explored. In addition the Brazil operations are in the Campos basin, rather than Santos where some major discoveries have been made.So BP's shares have slipped 5.3p to 619.6p, knocking nearly 4 points off the FTSE 100. Overall the leading index is pausing for breath after its recent gains, falling 18.05 points to 5622.52. Owen Ireland at ODL Securities said:The markets are taking a breather and it appears that traders are using this time to plot the next move. There is an air of uneasiness \u2013 the run up has slowed, and has almost come to a standstill. It feels as if we are at a pivotal point of the year \u2013 will the run continue, or are we set for a leg down?\"Other fallers included Smith and Nephew. The medical equipment group is down 21p to 674.5p after news last night that a US court had ruled against the company and in favour of Kinetic Concepts in a patent dispute. S&N said it would seek to overturn the ruling.Insurer Old Mutual has fallen 2.6p to 121p after it announced a shake-up including disposing of its US life and asset management businesses via a sale and flotation respectively, to reduce its debt by \u00a31.5bn. Eamonn Flanagan at Shore Capital said:The issue is that the group remains highly vulnerable to market conditions both in terms of the likelihood of disposals and IPO (proceeds to be used to pay down debt) but also on the issues in its Bermuda business. Hence, despite the 32% discount to our 2010 forecast MCEV net asset value of 180p, we reiterate our hold recommendation.", "tags": ["BP", "Business", "Smith and Nephew", "Old Mutual"], "title": "BP's slide after $7bn deal helps drag FTSE lower"},{"date": "2010-03-19T14:00:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\"Do I really, seriously have to explain that I don't believe that all Muslims have lasers in their eyes? I hope not,\" said would-be New Mexico candidate for Congress Adam Kokesh last week. He was referring to a flier he had helped produce and distribute in 2007 on the campus of George Washington University mocking Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week.The headline read, \"Hate Muslims? So Do We!!!\" The flier helpfully explained that the \"typical Muslim\" has \"lasers in eyes, venom from mouth, hatred for women, suicide vest, hidden AK-47, [and a] peg leg for smuggling children and heroin.\" Students who wanted to find out more were told to \"come to Islamo-Fascism awareness week\" put on by GWU's Young America's Foundation. The supposed sponsors of the flier were \"Students for Conservativo-Fascism Awareness.\"The intent of the flier is clear enough: to ridicule YAF's efforts. Yet when it was distributed around campus, powerhouse conservative pundit Michelle Malkin called it a \"fake hate crime\". Last week she wrote on her blog that Kokesh and company had \"weaseled out of the attacks by claiming they were 'satire.'\"But they were satire, if slightly sophomoric. Kokesh said that he was motivated to jab at YAF because he thought their event \"was really just part of the general government fear tactics of saying, If you don't give us more power, and give up more civil liberties, and pay us more taxes and put more power in the executive branch of the federal government, terrorists are\" \u2013 gross exaggeration alert \u2013 \"going to jump out of your television set and kill you and then subject you to sharia law.\"\"When people are trying to raise a spectre of fear like that,\" Kokesh said, \"satire is a good way to punch through it.\" Now the offended parties are punching back.Malkin wrote that the organisation that Kokesh is part of, Iraq Veterans Against the War, had a membership that included \"bomb-threat bullies and death-threat nutballs who threatened to assassinate me,\" as well as \"fake army vet Jesse MacBeth\". She charged that Kokesh was \"arrested for defacing signs and travelled to Germany to urge soldiers to abandon their posts \u2026 He is an anti-war smear merchant in GOP clothing.\"Kokesh, a retired marine who was involved in the first battle of Fallujah, denied the charges. Of his arrest in 2007, he said, \"We were actually putting up posters. We weren't defacing anything. And we were doing it very deliberately in line with the code of the District of Columbia. And we were arrested for political reasons, then acquitted.\" I pressed him on the question of troop desertion:Q: If a soldier is out in the field and he all of the sudden decided that this war in unconstitutional, does he have an obligation to desert his post?A: No, no, no, no! But to raise the issue, and if he feels the need, in conscience, to say, \"I'm not going to participate anymore\" there is a legal way to do that under the [Uniform Code of Military Justice]. But, no. We've never said \"Walk away from your post.\" That's a gross distortion of what we're talking about here and something I've never advocated.Kokesh said that he understood why Malkin was angry and talked of the death threats that his own advocacy has provoked. He had, he told me, voted to kick the veteran who threatened her with a \"fatwa\" out of Iraq Veterans Against the War. And he generally deplored the times when his fellow anti-war veterans threaten their critics. He called it both wrong and counterproductive.But heading into the New Mexico state GOP nominating convention last weekend, Kokesh refused to give an inch. \"I'm running for office to continue my oath to the constitution that I swore when I joined the Marine Corps,\" he said. He aims to \"take all the powers\" the federal government has \"taken on illegally\" and \"at very least, restore a republican form of government.\"Some polling indicates that Kokesh has a shot to win the seat currently held by Democrat Ben Ray Luj\u00e1n, but first he has to get the nomination and that could be a problem with prominent conservatives like Malkin pushing against him. \"Obviously I'm not a party line Republican,\" said Kokesh, in the understatement of the week.", "tags": ["Republicans", "US politics", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Adam Kokesh, anti-war Republican | Jeremy Lott"},{"date": "2010-03-25T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tuesday's announcement by US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, that future US aid to Mexico will focus less on military support and more on institution building and community renewal is a step in the right direction. But this new approach is doomed to fail if it is not grounded in a more nuanced understanding of the situation south of the border. Instead of simply reacting to crises as they emerge, President Obama should develop a new forward-looking strategy of engagement.Obama did not mention Mexico once in his state of the union address. He did visit Mexico twice last year, but both trips were brief and bureaucratic. In contrast to his visits to Europe and Africa, where he spoke before large crowds and held meetings with a wide variety of political and social leaders, he has only met behind closed doors with Mexico's president Felipe Calder\u00f3n and his cabinet.Tuesday's meeting in Mexico City was more of the same. The top-level team that accompanied Clinton did not deign to meet with anyone outside of Calder\u00f3n's immediate circle and a cloud of opacity enveloped the discussions.The problem with being captured by Calder\u00f3n is that the Mexican president continues to have serious political legitimacy problems. The failure in the battle against the drug cartels is largely attributable to Calder\u00f3n's use of the \"war on drugs\" to boost public opinion polls. This explains why so few of the alleged cartel leaders who are paraded in front of television cameras actually end up behind bars.No amount of new technology, institution building, or training of law enforcement officials will resolve this issue. If the US government wants to contribute to long-term solutions, it should broaden its contacts beyond Calder\u00f3n to include direct relationships with the Mexican Congress, judiciary, opposition political parties and civil society. This is the only way the US can guarantee that the next round of assistance will be used to attack the roots of the problem rather than as a political tool.Calder\u00f3n's heavy dependence on the military is one of the most important problems with the present strategy. US secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, was right in saying last week that the militarisation of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez \"hasn't helped anything\" \u2013 the number of homicides have increased ten-fold since the implementation of the new strategy. But she was quickly \"corrected\" by the US ambassador in Mexico, Carlos Pascual, who explained that she had merely meant that the military \"should not be left alone\" in its battle against the drug cartels. Despite Clinton's effort to emphasise the kinder and gentler side of the relationship in her public comments after Tuesday's meeting, the presence of Robert Gates, Michael Mullen, and Dennis Blair at the encounter suggests that one of the central agenda items was support for the Mexican military and for Calder\u00f3n's strongman tactics. Unfortunately, the opacity which enshrouded the meeting prevents us from knowing the details of the deals that were surely struck.The US government seems to be unaware that not so long ago Mexico's first military drug tsar, General Jes\u00fas Guti\u00e9rrez Rebollo, turned out to be in the pocket of the drug cartels. Today, a large percentage of narco-assassins are former soldiers and the high levels of rotation amid rank-and-file military personnel makes it virtually impossible to prevent infiltration by organised crime. The presence of soldiers in the streets has also led to an explosion of human rights violations in Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and throughout Mexico. Both the UN human rights committee and the inter-American human rights court have called attention to this in recent months. The militarisation of law enforcement activities is also blatantly illegal under the Mexican constitution.Two years ago, during the Democratic primary campaign against Clinton, Barack Obama vowed to make Mexico a priority during his administration. In an article he wrote for the Dallas Morning News he condemned George W Bush's approach to Latin America as \"clumsy, disinterested and, above all, distracted by the war in Iraq\". He also promised that the meetings between Mexico and the US would be \"conducted with transparency\" and would be based on the \"active and open involvement of citizens, labour, the private sector and non-governmental organisations in setting the agenda and making progress\". It is time for President Obama to take his words seriously and initiate a new phase in US-Mexico relations grounded in broad-based participation, transparency and a repudiation of the use of the military in law enforcement activities.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama must fulfil Mexican promise | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-02T18:59:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Alabama's gubernatorial primaries last night delivered shocks for both parties, with Democratic voters delivering a landslide defeat for an African American candidate and Republicans still waiting on the last votes to be counted in a knife-edge result.In New Mexico, though, Republicans rejected a candidate backed by Karl Rove and instead voted for Susana Martinez, the first Hispanic woman to be nominated for governor by either party.Pre-election polling had put Artur Davis in the lead for the Democratic nomination, in his bid to be Alabama's first black governor. But the primary instead delivered a crushing defeat for the congressman, with his opponent Ron Sparks cruising to a 62%-38% victory.The Birmingham News called it \"one of the more remarkable upsets in Alabama primary history\". A Research 2000 poll two weeks ago had Davis up by 41% compared with 33% for Sparks among Democratic voters. But once again, primary polling turned out to be unreliable: the polling blogger Nate Silver of the 538.com blog noted that the error would be the fifth largest in his database of 4500 polls.Low turn-out seems to have hurt Davis, although Sparks was endorsed by four major African American political groups as well as the Alabama Education Association teachers' union. Sparks' big policy idea is to bring high stakes gambling in the state, and use the revenue to invest in educationThe Republican governor's nomination remains up in the air, even in terms of which two candidates will go through to a special run-off in two weeks time. The leading candidate was Bradley Byrne, who qualified for the run-off with 28%, while two other candidates, Robert Bentley and Tim James, were separated by just 140 votes, after 99% of the votes had been counted, making a recount a certainty.While Byrne and James were expected to be the top two, Bentley's performance was a surprise and thought to reflect unhappiness with aggressive campaigning and attack ads from the front-runners.Also in Alabama's fifth congressional district, the Democrat-turned-Republican congressman Parker Griffith suffered an even worse fate than Republican-turned Democrat Arlen Specter last week. The Swing State Project blog sums up:Parker Griffith capped off one of the more embarrassing party switches in recent history with a blow-out loss to Madison County Commissioner Mo Brooks by a 51-33 margin. It was such an ignominious loss that Griffith refused to speak to the media or even show up at his election night reception to thank his supporters.Sadly \u2013 for fans of his campaign video \u2013 Dale Peterson came third in his bid for the Republican nomination for state agriculture commissioner. Which proves something about the power of advertising. Or maybe not. Better news for the wonderfully-named Young Boozer \u2013 he will represent the Republican party in the election for state treasurer (and beat George Wallace's son to boot).In New Mexico, Republicans nominated Susana Martinez, who is the first Latino woman to be nominated for a governor's mansion by either party. It also means that New Mexico will have its first woman governor in the state's history, since Martinez's opponent on 2 November will be the unopposed Democratic party nominee Diane Denish.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "New Mexico", "US politics", "Republicans", "Democrats", "US news", "World news"], "title": "2010 primaries: Alabama upsets, New Mexico milestones | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-02T18:59:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Alabama's gubernatorial primaries last night delivered shocks for both parties, with Democratic voters delivering a landslide defeat for an African American candidate and Republicans still waiting on the last votes to be counted in a knife-edge result.In New Mexico, though, Republicans rejected a candidate backed by Karl Rove and instead voted for Susana Martinez, the first Hispanic woman to be nominated for governor by either party.Pre-election polling had put Artur Davis in the lead for the Democratic nomination, in his bid to be Alabama's first black governor. But the primary instead delivered a crushing defeat for the congressman, with his opponent Ron Sparks cruising to a 62%-38% victory.The Birmingham News called it \"one of the more remarkable upsets in Alabama primary history\". A Research 2000 poll two weeks ago had Davis up by 41% compared with 33% for Sparks among Democratic voters. But once again, primary polling turned out to be unreliable: the polling blogger Nate Silver of the 538.com blog noted that the error would be the fifth largest in his database of 4500 polls.Low turn-out seems to have hurt Davis, although Sparks was endorsed by four major African American political groups as well as the Alabama Education Association teachers' union. Sparks' big policy idea is to bring high stakes gambling in the state, and use the revenue to invest in educationThe Republican governor's nomination remains up in the air, even in terms of which two candidates will go through to a special run-off in two weeks time. The leading candidate was Bradley Byrne, who qualified for the run-off with 28%, while two other candidates, Robert Bentley and Tim James, were separated by just 140 votes, after 99% of the votes had been counted, making a recount a certainty.While Byrne and James were expected to be the top two, Bentley's performance was a surprise and thought to reflect unhappiness with aggressive campaigning and attack ads from the front-runners.Also in Alabama's fifth congressional district, the Democrat-turned-Republican congressman Parker Griffith suffered an even worse fate than Republican-turned Democrat Arlen Specter last week. The Swing State Project blog sums up:Parker Griffith capped off one of the more embarrassing party switches in recent history with a blow-out loss to Madison County Commissioner Mo Brooks by a 51-33 margin. It was such an ignominious loss that Griffith refused to speak to the media or even show up at his election night reception to thank his supporters.Sadly \u2013 for fans of his campaign video \u2013 Dale Peterson came third in his bid for the Republican nomination for state agriculture commissioner. Which proves something about the power of advertising. Or maybe not. Better news for the wonderfully-named Young Boozer \u2013 he will represent the Republican party in the election for state treasurer (and beat George Wallace's son to boot).In New Mexico, Republicans nominated Susana Martinez, who is the first Latino woman to be nominated for a governor's mansion by either party. It also means that New Mexico will have its first woman governor in the state's history, since Martinez's opponent on 2 November will be the unopposed Democratic party nominee Diane Denish.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "New Mexico", "US politics", "Republicans", "Democrats", "US news", "World news"], "title": "2010 primaries: Alabama upsets, New Mexico milestones | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-01T19:10:23Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's primary election day in Alabama, Mississippi and New Mexico \u2013 and it's Alabama that has the most interesting contests on both the Republican and Democratic sides of the aisle.In the Democratic primary, Artur Davis is challenging to become the first black governor of Alabama, and he's doing so in an unusual fashion, as the New York Times reports:Mr Davis, 42, is among the nation's new guard of black political figures. But since he was elected to Congress in 2002, he has often been at odds with much of the state's black political establishment. He never sought \u2014 or earned \u2014 their blessing to run for governor. And the civil rights organizations that have long carried influence over many black voters in the state have lined up behind Mr Davis's opponent, Ron Sparks, the state agriculture commissioner, who is white.The fight between Davis and Sparks has been rancorous, but Davis's attempt is seen by some as reminiscent of Barack Obama's presidential campaign: not directly courting the black vote.But neither Davis nor Sparks have more than a slim hope come November in the 2010 midterm elections, regardless of which of them wins the nomination. The Republican primary battle for the vacant Alabama governor's position has attracted a crowded field of seven runners, since the state is solidly Republican and can be expected to elect the winner of the primary.As previously mentioned, the candidates include Tim James of the tasteful \"This is Alabama, we speak English\" campaign ads. If no one candidate wins a majority, as seems likely, there will be a run-off election between the top two on 13 June.Also in Alabama, turncoat former Democratic congressman Parker Griffith will learn his fate after switching parties, and he looks likely to lose his bid for the Republican nomination in Alabama's fifth congressional district.The only other primary of note today is in the Republican nomination for New Mexico governor. Five Republicans are competing to take on Diane Denish, the sole Democratic nominee and current deputy governor who is attempting to become the state's first woman governor.Politics geeks can follow the action this evening on a liveblog at the Swing State Project blog.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "Mississippi", "New Mexico", "US politics", "US Congress", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Primary day: Alabama, Mississippi, New Mexico | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-02T18:59:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Alabama's gubernatorial primaries last night delivered shocks for both parties, with Democratic voters delivering a landslide defeat for an African American candidate and Republicans still waiting on the last votes to be counted in a knife-edge result.In New Mexico, though, Republicans rejected a candidate backed by Karl Rove and instead voted for Susana Martinez, the first Hispanic woman to be nominated for governor by either party.Pre-election polling had put Artur Davis in the lead for the Democratic nomination, in his bid to be Alabama's first black governor. But the primary instead delivered a crushing defeat for the congressman, with his opponent Ron Sparks cruising to a 62%-38% victory.The Birmingham News called it \"one of the more remarkable upsets in Alabama primary history\". A Research 2000 poll two weeks ago had Davis up by 41% compared with 33% for Sparks among Democratic voters. But once again, primary polling turned out to be unreliable: the polling blogger Nate Silver of the 538.com blog noted that the error would be the fifth largest in his database of 4500 polls.Low turn-out seems to have hurt Davis, although Sparks was endorsed by four major African American political groups as well as the Alabama Education Association teachers' union. Sparks' big policy idea is to bring high stakes gambling in the state, and use the revenue to invest in educationThe Republican governor's nomination remains up in the air, even in terms of which two candidates will go through to a special run-off in two weeks time. The leading candidate was Bradley Byrne, who qualified for the run-off with 28%, while two other candidates, Robert Bentley and Tim James, were separated by just 140 votes, after 99% of the votes had been counted, making a recount a certainty.While Byrne and James were expected to be the top two, Bentley's performance was a surprise and thought to reflect unhappiness with aggressive campaigning and attack ads from the front-runners.Also in Alabama's fifth congressional district, the Democrat-turned-Republican congressman Parker Griffith suffered an even worse fate than Republican-turned Democrat Arlen Specter last week. The Swing State Project blog sums up:Parker Griffith capped off one of the more embarrassing party switches in recent history with a blow-out loss to Madison County Commissioner Mo Brooks by a 51-33 margin. It was such an ignominious loss that Griffith refused to speak to the media or even show up at his election night reception to thank his supporters.Sadly \u2013 for fans of his campaign video \u2013 Dale Peterson came third in his bid for the Republican nomination for state agriculture commissioner. Which proves something about the power of advertising. Or maybe not. Better news for the wonderfully-named Young Boozer \u2013 he will represent the Republican party in the election for state treasurer (and beat George Wallace's son to boot).In New Mexico, Republicans nominated Susana Martinez, who is the first Latino woman to be nominated for a governor's mansion by either party. It also means that New Mexico will have its first woman governor in the state's history, since Martinez's opponent on 2 November will be the unopposed Democratic party nominee Diane Denish.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "New Mexico", "US politics", "Republicans", "Democrats", "US news", "World news"], "title": "2010 primaries: Alabama upsets, New Mexico milestones | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-01T19:10:23Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's primary election day in Alabama, Mississippi and New Mexico \u2013 and it's Alabama that has the most interesting contests on both the Republican and Democratic sides of the aisle.In the Democratic primary, Artur Davis is challenging to become the first black governor of Alabama, and he's doing so in an unusual fashion, as the New York Times reports:Mr Davis, 42, is among the nation's new guard of black political figures. But since he was elected to Congress in 2002, he has often been at odds with much of the state's black political establishment. He never sought \u2014 or earned \u2014 their blessing to run for governor. And the civil rights organizations that have long carried influence over many black voters in the state have lined up behind Mr Davis's opponent, Ron Sparks, the state agriculture commissioner, who is white.The fight between Davis and Sparks has been rancorous, but Davis's attempt is seen by some as reminiscent of Barack Obama's presidential campaign: not directly courting the black vote.But neither Davis nor Sparks have more than a slim hope come November in the 2010 midterm elections, regardless of which of them wins the nomination. The Republican primary battle for the vacant Alabama governor's position has attracted a crowded field of seven runners, since the state is solidly Republican and can be expected to elect the winner of the primary.As previously mentioned, the candidates include Tim James of the tasteful \"This is Alabama, we speak English\" campaign ads. If no one candidate wins a majority, as seems likely, there will be a run-off election between the top two on 13 June.Also in Alabama, turncoat former Democratic congressman Parker Griffith will learn his fate after switching parties, and he looks likely to lose his bid for the Republican nomination in Alabama's fifth congressional district.The only other primary of note today is in the Republican nomination for New Mexico governor. Five Republicans are competing to take on Diane Denish, the sole Democratic nominee and current deputy governor who is attempting to become the state's first woman governor.Politics geeks can follow the action this evening on a liveblog at the Swing State Project blog.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "Mississippi", "New Mexico", "US politics", "US Congress", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Primary day: Alabama, Mississippi, New Mexico | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-05-27T19:02:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government is to ban junk food and fry-ups in primary and secondary schools in an effort to combat one of the worst obesity problems in the world.From the beginning of the next school year, school shops will no longer be allowed to stock fizzy drinks, sugar-stuffed fruit juices, processed snacks, or more local delights such as chilli soaked sweets. Nor will school kitchens offer traditional standards such as fried tacos.\"The kids are going to complain, of course,\" the education minister Alonso Lujambio told W Radio today. \"We are going to start a profound cultural change.\"The ban does not affect junk food vendors who congregate at school gates at home time, although Lujambio promised future efforts to encourage them to sell healthier products.President Felipe Calderon launched an anti-obesity campaign in January. Public officials refer to Mexican children as the fattest in the world. While the comparative figures are questionable, one study concluded that 26% between the ages of five and 11 were overweight. The proportion of overweight adults is approaching that in the US.The health minister Jose Angel Cordoba said consumption of fruits and vegetables in the last 15 years had fallen by 40% while consumption of sweetened drinks rose by 50% .Dependence on junk foods is compounded by falling rates of exercise caused, in part, by chaotic urbanisation that eats up open spaces.Many Mexicans also have a genetic propensity to store fat, as well as to develop diabetes.The stampede towards unhealthy eating is also visible in rural areas where a recent study in isolated indigenous villages found many cases of mothers who immediately bought their children junk food treats after picking up government anti-poverty hand outs.The school ban comes after years of resistance from corporations such as Coca Cola and Pepsi. Lujambio praised their new \"co-operative spirit\" with reference to their diversification into healthier products, including bottled water which is hugely profitable in a country where few trust tap water. \"Our hope is that children start demanding other kinds of products,\" he said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Obesity", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico bans junk foods in schools"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-02T18:59:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Alabama's gubernatorial primaries last night delivered shocks for both parties, with Democratic voters delivering a landslide defeat for an African American candidate and Republicans still waiting on the last votes to be counted in a knife-edge result.In New Mexico, though, Republicans rejected a candidate backed by Karl Rove and instead voted for Susana Martinez, the first Hispanic woman to be nominated for governor by either party.Pre-election polling had put Artur Davis in the lead for the Democratic nomination, in his bid to be Alabama's first black governor. But the primary instead delivered a crushing defeat for the congressman, with his opponent Ron Sparks cruising to a 62%-38% victory.The Birmingham News called it \"one of the more remarkable upsets in Alabama primary history\". A Research 2000 poll two weeks ago had Davis up by 41% compared with 33% for Sparks among Democratic voters. But once again, primary polling turned out to be unreliable: the polling blogger Nate Silver of the 538.com blog noted that the error would be the fifth largest in his database of 4500 polls.Low turn-out seems to have hurt Davis, although Sparks was endorsed by four major African American political groups as well as the Alabama Education Association teachers' union. Sparks' big policy idea is to bring high stakes gambling in the state, and use the revenue to invest in educationThe Republican governor's nomination remains up in the air, even in terms of which two candidates will go through to a special run-off in two weeks time. The leading candidate was Bradley Byrne, who qualified for the run-off with 28%, while two other candidates, Robert Bentley and Tim James, were separated by just 140 votes, after 99% of the votes had been counted, making a recount a certainty.While Byrne and James were expected to be the top two, Bentley's performance was a surprise and thought to reflect unhappiness with aggressive campaigning and attack ads from the front-runners.Also in Alabama's fifth congressional district, the Democrat-turned-Republican congressman Parker Griffith suffered an even worse fate than Republican-turned Democrat Arlen Specter last week. The Swing State Project blog sums up:Parker Griffith capped off one of the more embarrassing party switches in recent history with a blow-out loss to Madison County Commissioner Mo Brooks by a 51-33 margin. It was such an ignominious loss that Griffith refused to speak to the media or even show up at his election night reception to thank his supporters.Sadly \u2013 for fans of his campaign video \u2013 Dale Peterson came third in his bid for the Republican nomination for state agriculture commissioner. Which proves something about the power of advertising. Or maybe not. Better news for the wonderfully-named Young Boozer \u2013 he will represent the Republican party in the election for state treasurer (and beat George Wallace's son to boot).In New Mexico, Republicans nominated Susana Martinez, who is the first Latino woman to be nominated for a governor's mansion by either party. It also means that New Mexico will have its first woman governor in the state's history, since Martinez's opponent on 2 November will be the unopposed Democratic party nominee Diane Denish.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "New Mexico", "US politics", "Republicans", "Democrats", "US news", "World news"], "title": "2010 primaries: Alabama upsets, New Mexico milestones | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-01T19:10:23Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's primary election day in Alabama, Mississippi and New Mexico \u2013 and it's Alabama that has the most interesting contests on both the Republican and Democratic sides of the aisle.In the Democratic primary, Artur Davis is challenging to become the first black governor of Alabama, and he's doing so in an unusual fashion, as the New York Times reports:Mr Davis, 42, is among the nation's new guard of black political figures. But since he was elected to Congress in 2002, he has often been at odds with much of the state's black political establishment. He never sought \u2014 or earned \u2014 their blessing to run for governor. And the civil rights organizations that have long carried influence over many black voters in the state have lined up behind Mr Davis's opponent, Ron Sparks, the state agriculture commissioner, who is white.The fight between Davis and Sparks has been rancorous, but Davis's attempt is seen by some as reminiscent of Barack Obama's presidential campaign: not directly courting the black vote.But neither Davis nor Sparks have more than a slim hope come November in the 2010 midterm elections, regardless of which of them wins the nomination. The Republican primary battle for the vacant Alabama governor's position has attracted a crowded field of seven runners, since the state is solidly Republican and can be expected to elect the winner of the primary.As previously mentioned, the candidates include Tim James of the tasteful \"This is Alabama, we speak English\" campaign ads. If no one candidate wins a majority, as seems likely, there will be a run-off election between the top two on 13 June.Also in Alabama, turncoat former Democratic congressman Parker Griffith will learn his fate after switching parties, and he looks likely to lose his bid for the Republican nomination in Alabama's fifth congressional district.The only other primary of note today is in the Republican nomination for New Mexico governor. Five Republicans are competing to take on Diane Denish, the sole Democratic nominee and current deputy governor who is attempting to become the state's first woman governor.Politics geeks can follow the action this evening on a liveblog at the Swing State Project blog.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "Mississippi", "New Mexico", "US politics", "US Congress", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Primary day: Alabama, Mississippi, New Mexico | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-05-27T19:02:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government is to ban junk food and fry-ups in primary and secondary schools in an effort to combat one of the worst obesity problems in the world.From the beginning of the next school year, school shops will no longer be allowed to stock fizzy drinks, sugar-stuffed fruit juices, processed snacks, or more local delights such as chilli soaked sweets. Nor will school kitchens offer traditional standards such as fried tacos.\"The kids are going to complain, of course,\" the education minister Alonso Lujambio told W Radio today. \"We are going to start a profound cultural change.\"The ban does not affect junk food vendors who congregate at school gates at home time, although Lujambio promised future efforts to encourage them to sell healthier products.President Felipe Calderon launched an anti-obesity campaign in January. Public officials refer to Mexican children as the fattest in the world. While the comparative figures are questionable, one study concluded that 26% between the ages of five and 11 were overweight. The proportion of overweight adults is approaching that in the US.The health minister Jose Angel Cordoba said consumption of fruits and vegetables in the last 15 years had fallen by 40% while consumption of sweetened drinks rose by 50% .Dependence on junk foods is compounded by falling rates of exercise caused, in part, by chaotic urbanisation that eats up open spaces.Many Mexicans also have a genetic propensity to store fat, as well as to develop diabetes.The stampede towards unhealthy eating is also visible in rural areas where a recent study in isolated indigenous villages found many cases of mothers who immediately bought their children junk food treats after picking up government anti-poverty hand outs.The school ban comes after years of resistance from corporations such as Coca Cola and Pepsi. Lujambio praised their new \"co-operative spirit\" with reference to their diversification into healthier products, including bottled water which is hugely profitable in a country where few trust tap water. \"Our hope is that children start demanding other kinds of products,\" he said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Obesity", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico bans junk foods in schools"},{"date": "2010-05-13T23:05:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion that killed 11 workers on 20 April has the potential to transform the face of oil exploration. But what it really needs to do is to serve as the final siren signalling the end of the US addiction to oil. It will not serve BP's ambition to stave off that day if its chief executive plays down the scale of the crisis as he did by suggesting in his interview with this paper yesterday that the oil that has spilt so far is \u2013 to paraphrase only a little \u2013 just a drop in the ocean. Tony Hayward's remarks came at the end of another tough week not just for BP but for everyone whose livelihood depends on the environmental health of the Gulf of Mexico. It was a curious remark from a man who acknowledged that his job now depends on how well he is judged to have managed the crisis.Mr Hayward is generally considered to have done much to restore BP's ropey reputation after the 2005 Texas fire in which 15 died, and the Alaskan oil spill a year later. Strictly speaking, he is right that the 100,000 barrels of crude oil that has leaked so far does not yet put the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the top 50 of the grim league table of oil spills, although \u2013 if last night's attempt to stem the flow has failed \u2013 it is heading that way. Meanwhile, evidence is emerging through the congressional inquiry that suggests safety is still not the priority it should be. The bosses of BP, the rig operator Transocean and Halliburton \u2013 which was responsible for concreting the well into place \u2013 have all been passing the buck in front of senators. Meanwhile investigators working through 1,000 pages of material from the main players have uncovered reports suggesting that tests immediately before the pipeline blew indicated that problems were developing in the operation to close the well, but the decision was taken to ignore them\u00a0\u2013\u00a0saving\u00a0some\u00a0tens\u00a0of\u00a0millions of dollars.The knock-on effects of this decision are already beyond estimate. Further oil exploration in Alaska has rightly been held up while Shell is challenged to prove it can prevent a similar disaster. It now seems possible that states bordering the Gulf of Mexico will be entitled to rule out oil exploration in coastal waters, prompting the International Energy Agency to warn against what it sees as an overreaction. Oil experts point out that the only politically viable alternatives \u2013 Angola and Brazil \u2013 involve drilling in even deeper waters. Disasters like Deepwater Horizon are the tip of the iceberg of the environmental harm caused by burning fossil fuels. Yet even as the crude begins to wash up on beaches, it seems that the attempts by senators John Kerry and Joe Lieberman to get the US signed up to a comprehensive clean energy bill are doomed. The love affair with oil goes on.", "tags": ["BP oil spill", "BP", "Environment", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Tony Hayward"], "title": "Gulf of Mexico disaster: Oil and vinegar | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-05-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth. There are the high desert plateaux reaching for scores of miles into the blue distance; the iron-like clumps of mountain scarfed in cloud, their summits shimmering with ice; Alpine forests of fir, stands of aspen, mists of giant cottonwoods in the valley beds, and craggy peaks that burst from the flatlands.New Mexico's ranking as the fourth-poorest state in the union has safeguarded it from industrial development and preserved its natural riches. And despite being so arid, this is a land defined by its waters \u2013 lakes, rivers, streams surging between volcanoes, meandering through broad valleys, plunging down gorges. And its wildlife is really wild: bear, elk, bison, wolves, mountain lion, eagles.But some beautiful places are not just beautiful; New Mexico is good for the soul. People still come here, as they've been doing since the early 1900s, in search of a deeper meaning in their lives. There are dozens of religious and spiritual centres \u2013 some offshoots of the hippy days when the state was a nexus of counter-culture, some as traditional as the shrine of Chimay\u00f3, to which thousands of Catholic pilgrims walk through the desert each year. But perhaps the biggest draw is still the state's 19 traditional native Pueblo peoples, living on ancestral lands they have occupied for hundreds, even thousands of years. Nowhere else in America do people still live in ancient mud homes, and eat the corn and chilli their forebears grew.New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, has just launched a new initiative to capitalise on these resources. \"We're first in film, first in space, and now we're first in ecotourism,\" he says, referring to the tax breaks that have made New Mexico second only to Hollywood for movie production, and to Richard Branson's new \"Spaceport\", which is being built in the south of the state.\"We think traditional tourism is a thing of the past,\" he says. \"The new traveller wants to do more than just visit a historic relic or city. They want a personal wilderness experience that includes wildlife, Indian Pueblos, and our landscape, our parks. We're constructing eco-lodges throughout the state that will offer river-rafting, wild horses, horse riding, our ancient cultures. At the same time, we're protecting the environment.\"Ecotourism is not new here. When DH Lawrence came to New Mexico in 1921, he watched dances and ceremonies among Pueblos and tried to immerse himself in the consciousness of the local culture. And ever since the pioneer East Coast painters Blumenschein and Phillips broke their wagon wheel 20 miles from Taos in 1898, and decided to stay there rather than press on for Mexico, the state has drawn people to a low-impact lifestyle. But today there's a new edge: the Pueblo people predominantly practise sustainable living, while the Hispanic population has always built from local materials \u2013 adobe and trees. New Mexico is a state that has survived by safeguarding its past. Its traditional life, still visible, is intrinsically green.Governor Richardson hopes the native community will be one of the big beneficiaries of his new venture. \"This is good for them,\" he says. \"This is clean industry.\" His heart is in the right place, but whether or not the Pueblos leap on board remains to be seen.I teach Native American students at the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe. They drive beat-up cars, live in dorms, have part-time jobs and get late with their assignments, just like other students. But there's a difference. Most of them still participate in tribal ceremonies where they may fast for days on end, shut up in a hot room (kiva) with their clan fellows, then dance for days in nothing but a few flaps of animal hide in freezing midwinter temperatures. From their point of view, mainstream western individualism is not just a delusion, but a form of hell. We strive for ourselves, not for cousin, brother, aunt. We live in competition rather than community, and treat the earth as a storehouse to be plundered.One student's grandmother is the last surviving full-blood Mohawk. Another's great-great-grandmother was shot by Custer's troops. Pregnant, and almost due, before she died she managed somehow to give herself a caesarian, cut open the belly of a dead mare lying beside her, and place her infant inside it; Indian scouts who came through later heard the baby crying, and it survived.Some Indians say the white man never was the enemy; the enemy was the sickness, the demon, that had possessed him, that caused him to be ever-hungry, unassuageable in his appetites. But there are native leaders who are seeking to lead their population into a healthy participation in national life. Bringing in parties of eco-tourists will be a step in the right direction.In winter, the trunks of cottonwood trees look like tarnished silver candlesticks. From a distance, their dense thatch of twigs turns into a cloud of wire wool, a faint cupric green.Nora Naranjo-Morse, a celebrated contemporary artist from the Santa Clara reservation, whose works show in museums around the country, lives in a grove of these giant trees. All around are her inventive works in clay and adobe \u2013 a field of small mud cones, lengths of adobe rope draped from trees, clay sculptures of iconic human figures, a megalith made from leftover adobe bricks from a new fireplace. \"Our people have always worked with clay,\" she tells me, \"whether fetching it from the river, or making or selling pottery.\"Pueblos have their share of social problems, yet they also offer a vision to contemporary America of a deeper way of living \u2013 in connection with the land, with ancestral tradition, in a community. \"A hundred years ago, all Indians had a collective consciousness,\" Nora says. \"Today it's in transition. How do you contextualise what the native person is today?\"When you enter a reservation, you can feel it. It's a bit like going to Cuba, or an old communist country. Suddenly the endless grasping of consumerist capitalism drops away. There's a sense of rootedness, of no real need for things to be different \u2013 especially if you're there for a dance. Lines of semi-naked figures in elaborate masks and costumes of feather, fur, hide, with strings of rattling shells in their hands, are stomping up and down to the beat of drums that boom around the old mud walls. They'll move slowly round the central plaza in the course of a day, honouring each of the four directions.Repetitive and monotonous, punctuated by the antics of a clown, the dances tend either to induce intense boredom in a spectator, or a meditative trance. The hills in the distance, the houses, the trees overhead, may all become part of the scene in a new way, as if they belonged together as cogently as the elements of composition in a movie still.At some point in the day, whoever is currently the community's governor throws open his doors, and people stream into his house to be fed chilli stew, roast squash, corn and tortillas.The Brazos Cliffs in northern New Mexico are from another world. Two billion years old, they rise up in 2,000ft of granite from pine-covered hills. Corkins Lodge, a ring of log cabins built in the late 1920s amid a grove of huge ponderosa pines, stands at their foot.Corkins is a refuge from corporate America. Heated by stoves burning the deadfall from its forests, the place is intrinsically organic. You can taste the wilderness. There are mountain lions and enough bears that the garbage outside each cabin has to be locked up.Today, in early spring, there are still cambers of old snow where it has slid off the cabin roofs. The breeze hisses in the trees constantly, like the sound of traffic in a city. (Ponderosas are like junior redwoods \u2013 incredibly straight and tall, the cracks in their filo pastry-like bark fragrant with vanilla.) Up on the cliffs, some crevices are filled with old snow, and below them the rock is black with snowmelt. Otherwise, the cliffs rise like blue smoke, like the towers on King Kong's island.What is it about this place? All the pleasures are simple, elemental. You can clamber down to the river and dunk yourself in its icy water. In summer you can swim in a swimming hole between boulders as big as houses. You can hike paths through the ponderosas, fish for trout or sit by a stove, the scent of pinewood seeping through the cabin. And the sounds here \u2013 the river rushing below, wind soughing through pine needles, the cheeping of birds and chipmunks, the trees creaking \u2013 are all indigenous. Once a day, perhaps, it's disturbed by the distant buzz of a plane. New Mexican ecotourism is also about adventure. With his trademark beaver-felt 10-gallon hat, Cisco \u2013 or Francisco Antonio Miguel Ni\u00f1o de Ortiz Ladron de Guevara \u2013 is a character. Great-nephew of Pancho Villa's wife, he has been floating down the Rio Grande Gorge for so long he has virtually become part of its ecology. \"I love the gorge,\" he says. \"It saved my life.\"Although it has almost killed him, too, he credits the river gorge with rescuing him from a life of crime and drugs. Wanted in three states in his wayward youth, one day he went up to the canyon rim, not sure whether to throw himself off, turn himself in or continue on the run. Then suddenly he heard ethereal voices singing Merle Haggard's \"Lonesome Vagabond\". The song described his life perfectly: on the run, wherever he turned. Was it angels singing about his future? Then he discovered powerlines beyond a bluff, which were somehow picking up the local country radio station. But the message was clear: he drove down to the nearest police station, turned himself in, did his time, then came out and slowly built up his business, Los Rios River Runners.On a rainy morning a group of us would-be rafters climb into an old school bus and bounce past Taos's geodesic domes, bermed earthships, converted trailers, adobe shelters, and an old cop car painted in rasta colours, on our way to the Taos Box, a notorious string of rapids on the Rio Grande. As soon as we descend into the gorge there's a new quiet. The ziggurat-like cliffs, the flecked river silently rushing past, ringed with eddies, form a kind of hallowed precinct. The 17 miles we drift and surge are a floating wildlife tour. From mayflies turning like frigates on the brown surface to a golden eagle missing a feather \u2013 the gap clearly silhouetted against the sky as the bird turns and turns above us \u2013 we see all kinds of fauna in this arid land.\"How do you know it's a golden eagle?\" I ask the guide, Eli, a gravel-voiced mountain man with a straggle of ginger beard. \"See that grey rock under the cliff? The brown thing on top is a 6ft pile of sticks. That's their nest. Plus it doesn't have a white head, so it's not a bald eagle.\"Half an hour and three miles of boiling, dirty-white rapids later, a peregrine falcon suddenly drops out of its glide, and shoots right down into the gorge, streaking silently past our shoulders. Then, up on a boulder field, seven wild bighorn sheep lift their heads to stare at us.\"Spaniards brought them over,\" says Eli. \"They've been running wild 400 years.\"There's bigger wildlife on the Chama Land and Cattle Ranch, owned by the Jicarilla Apache tribe. Pat, a man with impenetrable shades and a camouflage vest, takes me on a tour of its 36,000 acres, in search of roaming elk and buffalo. So far the only sign of buffalo has been the numerous tall piles of dung beside a row of trough feeders. Then we pass a herd of 60 elk, looking like giant, thickset deer, with a shaggy darkness about the shoulders like a mane.The ranch mostly attracts hunters, but is planning an eco move into gun-free safaris. Meanwhile, its past is plain to see. The lodge's dining room is magnificently mock-baronial, while the hall is a veritable charnel house of skulls, skins and trophy heads. Bobcat, black bear, mountain lion, boar, javelina, wild goat \u2013 if it can be shot, its head is probably here.Should you need to decompress after all the wilderness adventure, there's nowhere like Ojo Caliente Mineral Springs. With an old hotel that looks like a train station from 19th-century Mexico, the sprawling spa has a strange atmosphere, an almost cloying quiet. Perhaps this is the air of healing. The place has been drawing people since prehistoric times with its thermal waters.This morning, four buzzards are turning in the sky. The sky here is like a sheet of steel. It's so hard. And the land is so soft \u2013 dusty yellow clay falling in pleats down the low cliffs above the old resort, from the foot of which 140,000 gallons of hot water surge up every day. If you wander on to the plateau above, you might find traces of the ancient people who lived here, drawn by the same hot baths. They called their village \"the place of the green bubbling hot springs\".From up here you can see the entire skyline of the Sangre de Cristo mountains that bissect northern New Mexico. They form one long italic line filling half the visible horizon, glistening with distant plates of snow. Those mountains are perhaps New Mexico's greatest treasure. If things go the way the governor is hoping, they'll be preserved just as they are for a good few decades yet.There are no direct flights from the UK, but you can fly into Phoenix, Arizona, and out of Denver, Colorado, direct on BA flights from London. A 14-night fly-drive trip for two with British Airways Holidays (0844 493 0787; ba.com) costs \u00a31,122 per person, based on June departures.Cabins at Corkins Lodge (corkinslodge.com) cost from $185 per night. Rafting in the Taos Box rapids costs $100 with Los Rios River Runners (losriosriverrunners.com). Double rooms at the Inn at Ojo Caliente (ojospa.com) are $115 a night. The Chama Land and Cattle Ranch (lodgeatchama.com) costs $275 per person per day, all inclusive. See newmexico.org/ecotourism.", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Green travel", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Ethical and green living"], "title": "New Mexico, new tourism"},{"date": "2010-06-02T18:59:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Alabama's gubernatorial primaries last night delivered shocks for both parties, with Democratic voters delivering a landslide defeat for an African American candidate and Republicans still waiting on the last votes to be counted in a knife-edge result.In New Mexico, though, Republicans rejected a candidate backed by Karl Rove and instead voted for Susana Martinez, the first Hispanic woman to be nominated for governor by either party.Pre-election polling had put Artur Davis in the lead for the Democratic nomination, in his bid to be Alabama's first black governor. But the primary instead delivered a crushing defeat for the congressman, with his opponent Ron Sparks cruising to a 62%-38% victory.The Birmingham News called it \"one of the more remarkable upsets in Alabama primary history\". A Research 2000 poll two weeks ago had Davis up by 41% compared with 33% for Sparks among Democratic voters. But once again, primary polling turned out to be unreliable: the polling blogger Nate Silver of the 538.com blog noted that the error would be the fifth largest in his database of 4500 polls.Low turn-out seems to have hurt Davis, although Sparks was endorsed by four major African American political groups as well as the Alabama Education Association teachers' union. Sparks' big policy idea is to bring high stakes gambling in the state, and use the revenue to invest in educationThe Republican governor's nomination remains up in the air, even in terms of which two candidates will go through to a special run-off in two weeks time. The leading candidate was Bradley Byrne, who qualified for the run-off with 28%, while two other candidates, Robert Bentley and Tim James, were separated by just 140 votes, after 99% of the votes had been counted, making a recount a certainty.While Byrne and James were expected to be the top two, Bentley's performance was a surprise and thought to reflect unhappiness with aggressive campaigning and attack ads from the front-runners.Also in Alabama's fifth congressional district, the Democrat-turned-Republican congressman Parker Griffith suffered an even worse fate than Republican-turned Democrat Arlen Specter last week. The Swing State Project blog sums up:Parker Griffith capped off one of the more embarrassing party switches in recent history with a blow-out loss to Madison County Commissioner Mo Brooks by a 51-33 margin. It was such an ignominious loss that Griffith refused to speak to the media or even show up at his election night reception to thank his supporters.Sadly \u2013 for fans of his campaign video \u2013 Dale Peterson came third in his bid for the Republican nomination for state agriculture commissioner. Which proves something about the power of advertising. Or maybe not. Better news for the wonderfully-named Young Boozer \u2013 he will represent the Republican party in the election for state treasurer (and beat George Wallace's son to boot).In New Mexico, Republicans nominated Susana Martinez, who is the first Latino woman to be nominated for a governor's mansion by either party. It also means that New Mexico will have its first woman governor in the state's history, since Martinez's opponent on 2 November will be the unopposed Democratic party nominee Diane Denish.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "New Mexico", "US politics", "Republicans", "Democrats", "US news", "World news"], "title": "2010 primaries: Alabama upsets, New Mexico milestones | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-06-01T19:10:23Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's primary election day in Alabama, Mississippi and New Mexico \u2013 and it's Alabama that has the most interesting contests on both the Republican and Democratic sides of the aisle.In the Democratic primary, Artur Davis is challenging to become the first black governor of Alabama, and he's doing so in an unusual fashion, as the New York Times reports:Mr Davis, 42, is among the nation's new guard of black political figures. But since he was elected to Congress in 2002, he has often been at odds with much of the state's black political establishment. He never sought \u2014 or earned \u2014 their blessing to run for governor. And the civil rights organizations that have long carried influence over many black voters in the state have lined up behind Mr Davis's opponent, Ron Sparks, the state agriculture commissioner, who is white.The fight between Davis and Sparks has been rancorous, but Davis's attempt is seen by some as reminiscent of Barack Obama's presidential campaign: not directly courting the black vote.But neither Davis nor Sparks have more than a slim hope come November in the 2010 midterm elections, regardless of which of them wins the nomination. The Republican primary battle for the vacant Alabama governor's position has attracted a crowded field of seven runners, since the state is solidly Republican and can be expected to elect the winner of the primary.As previously mentioned, the candidates include Tim James of the tasteful \"This is Alabama, we speak English\" campaign ads. If no one candidate wins a majority, as seems likely, there will be a run-off election between the top two on 13 June.Also in Alabama, turncoat former Democratic congressman Parker Griffith will learn his fate after switching parties, and he looks likely to lose his bid for the Republican nomination in Alabama's fifth congressional district.The only other primary of note today is in the Republican nomination for New Mexico governor. Five Republicans are competing to take on Diane Denish, the sole Democratic nominee and current deputy governor who is attempting to become the state's first woman governor.Politics geeks can follow the action this evening on a liveblog at the Swing State Project blog.", "tags": ["US midterm elections 2010", "Alabama", "Mississippi", "New Mexico", "US politics", "US Congress", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Primary day: Alabama, Mississippi, New Mexico | Richard Adams"},{"date": "2010-05-27T19:02:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government is to ban junk food and fry-ups in primary and secondary schools in an effort to combat one of the worst obesity problems in the world.From the beginning of the next school year, school shops will no longer be allowed to stock fizzy drinks, sugar-stuffed fruit juices, processed snacks, or more local delights such as chilli soaked sweets. Nor will school kitchens offer traditional standards such as fried tacos.\"The kids are going to complain, of course,\" the education minister Alonso Lujambio told W Radio today. \"We are going to start a profound cultural change.\"The ban does not affect junk food vendors who congregate at school gates at home time, although Lujambio promised future efforts to encourage them to sell healthier products.President Felipe Calderon launched an anti-obesity campaign in January. Public officials refer to Mexican children as the fattest in the world. While the comparative figures are questionable, one study concluded that 26% between the ages of five and 11 were overweight. The proportion of overweight adults is approaching that in the US.The health minister Jose Angel Cordoba said consumption of fruits and vegetables in the last 15 years had fallen by 40% while consumption of sweetened drinks rose by 50% .Dependence on junk foods is compounded by falling rates of exercise caused, in part, by chaotic urbanisation that eats up open spaces.Many Mexicans also have a genetic propensity to store fat, as well as to develop diabetes.The stampede towards unhealthy eating is also visible in rural areas where a recent study in isolated indigenous villages found many cases of mothers who immediately bought their children junk food treats after picking up government anti-poverty hand outs.The school ban comes after years of resistance from corporations such as Coca Cola and Pepsi. Lujambio praised their new \"co-operative spirit\" with reference to their diversification into healthier products, including bottled water which is hugely profitable in a country where few trust tap water. \"Our hope is that children start demanding other kinds of products,\" he said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Obesity", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico bans junk foods in schools"},{"date": "2010-05-13T23:05:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion that killed 11 workers on 20 April has the potential to transform the face of oil exploration. But what it really needs to do is to serve as the final siren signalling the end of the US addiction to oil. It will not serve BP's ambition to stave off that day if its chief executive plays down the scale of the crisis as he did by suggesting in his interview with this paper yesterday that the oil that has spilt so far is \u2013 to paraphrase only a little \u2013 just a drop in the ocean. Tony Hayward's remarks came at the end of another tough week not just for BP but for everyone whose livelihood depends on the environmental health of the Gulf of Mexico. It was a curious remark from a man who acknowledged that his job now depends on how well he is judged to have managed the crisis.Mr Hayward is generally considered to have done much to restore BP's ropey reputation after the 2005 Texas fire in which 15 died, and the Alaskan oil spill a year later. Strictly speaking, he is right that the 100,000 barrels of crude oil that has leaked so far does not yet put the Deepwater Horizon disaster in the top 50 of the grim league table of oil spills, although \u2013 if last night's attempt to stem the flow has failed \u2013 it is heading that way. Meanwhile, evidence is emerging through the congressional inquiry that suggests safety is still not the priority it should be. The bosses of BP, the rig operator Transocean and Halliburton \u2013 which was responsible for concreting the well into place \u2013 have all been passing the buck in front of senators. Meanwhile investigators working through 1,000 pages of material from the main players have uncovered reports suggesting that tests immediately before the pipeline blew indicated that problems were developing in the operation to close the well, but the decision was taken to ignore them\u00a0\u2013\u00a0saving\u00a0some\u00a0tens\u00a0of\u00a0millions of dollars.The knock-on effects of this decision are already beyond estimate. Further oil exploration in Alaska has rightly been held up while Shell is challenged to prove it can prevent a similar disaster. It now seems possible that states bordering the Gulf of Mexico will be entitled to rule out oil exploration in coastal waters, prompting the International Energy Agency to warn against what it sees as an overreaction. Oil experts point out that the only politically viable alternatives \u2013 Angola and Brazil \u2013 involve drilling in even deeper waters. Disasters like Deepwater Horizon are the tip of the iceberg of the environmental harm caused by burning fossil fuels. Yet even as the crude begins to wash up on beaches, it seems that the attempts by senators John Kerry and Joe Lieberman to get the US signed up to a comprehensive clean energy bill are doomed. The love affair with oil goes on.", "tags": ["BP oil spill", "BP", "Environment", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Tony Hayward"], "title": "Gulf of Mexico disaster: Oil and vinegar | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-04-14T23:34:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It is the gateway to one of Mexico's most famous tourist destinations. But the sleepy mountain town of Creel was shown in a very different light this week, when a leaked CCTV film showing a group of heavily armed hitmen gathering on a street corner before a massacre was broadcast on national television.The footage, apparently filmed by a police surveillance camera, gives a rare \u2013 and terrifying \u2013 glimpse of the impunity with which the footsoldiers of Mexico's warring drug cartels are able to operate.Around 30 gunmen are seen arriving in SUVs at a crossroads just outside the town that is the starting point for the spectacular sightseeing railway winding through Mexico's Copper Canyon.With assault rifles slung across their backs, the men gather around one vehicle, where they snort a white power handed out by a man in an SUV who appears to give orders.At one point the camera tracks a contingent of gunmen as they run across a frosted field to surround a house, shooting through the windows and kicking in a door.Later they stop a passing car, haul the driver out and kick him on the tarmac. After a few moments he rises to his feet, shakes the hand of one of his assailants and is allowed to drive away. The film ends with the gunmen disappearing into the mountains in a convoy of 15 vehicles.The images come from a massacre occurring on 15 March in which eight people were killed in and around Creel and a nearby town called San Juanito. They included a 14-year-old girl shot dead inside a different house from the one attacked on film. The rest were abducted, killed and then dumped outside town, or killed in their vehicles. Six people were also injured.\"The shooting lasted about 15 minutes,\" a hardware shop owner in Creel told the Guardian on condition his name not be used. \"They attacked the house of a hotel owner, but he wasn't there. I haven't seen him since.\"The incident itself received little press attention amid the spiralling drug-fuelled violence, which has escalated steadily since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched an offensive against the main trafficking groups in December 2006. Since then the official death toll has risen above 22,700, with 3,365 killed in the first three months of this year alone.The region around Creel is notorious as an area of smuggling and marijuana cultivation but the town is not considered particularly unsafe.Further north in the same state of Chihuahua lies the border city of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez where eight drug-related murders is considered a relatively quiet day.But the leak of the video, which was shown last week on national TV, has put the state authorities under pressure to explain why security officials apparently stood by and watched as the gunmen took control of the town.\"There are only five or six state police officers in Creel and four municipal police officers,\" Jos\u00e9 Reyes Baeza, the governor of Chihuahua, told local media this week. \"We are investigating, but the police presence is low.\"However, he did not explain why police or army reinforcements were not sent immediately.State prosecutors, meanwhile, have seemed more concerned with tracking down whoever leaked the video to the media.\"It's outrageous,\" said local priest Javier Avila Aguirre, who said that the security forces didn't arrive at the scene in any significant numbers until hours after the massacre when they had a brief look around and then left. \"The people of Creel feel abandoned.\"Not that everybody in town is happy with the attention the video has brought.\"This kind of thing happens all over the world, you just don't see it on TV,\" said local hotel manager Federico Garc\u00eda. \"They had left before we got out of bed and the violence doesn't affect us in Creel. What hurts are journalists intent on destroying a tourist destination and the economy of a country.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Leaked police film shows Mexico drug war"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-09-29T05:29:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Eleven people are missing after a mudslide hit a remote town in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, officials said this morning.Hundreds of people were believed to have been buried in the slide, which hit the town of Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec early yesterday, but Mexico's interior minister, Francisco Blake, and the governor of Oaxaca, Ulises Ruiz, both said the slide was not the catastrophe first feared.\"So far no one is confirmed dead, only 11 missing who we hope ... will be found,\" Ruiz said..Initial reports the rural mountain town 373 miles (600km) south-east of Mexico City said a hillside collapsed on hundreds of sleeping residents after several days of heavy rains in the aftermath of a hurricane and tropical storm that hit Mexico and Central America.Civil protection authorities first reported seven people killed and at least 100 missing, but Ruiz later reported casualties as four dead and 12 missing.Jose Alfredo Garcia, spokesman for Mexico's interior department, said initial reports were based on the number of homes hit by the mudslide, but at the time no federal or state officials had reached the site to check the estimates.Communications with the town were difficult after the pre-dawn slide. Soldiers and civil protection and Red Cross workers couldn't reach the area for nearly 10 hours because mud and rocks blocked roads and a bridge was damaged, while bad weather prevented helicopters from being used.Mexican president Felipe Calderon yesterday reported on his Twitter account that an army commander and 30 soldiers had reached the town by foot and that there was a lot of damage, but \"perhaps not of the magnitude initially reported\".Donato Vargas, an official in Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec reached by a satellite telephone, had said as many as 300 homes were believed to buried, and residents who made it out early in the morning said they had no success digging out neighbours.\"We have been using a backhoe but there is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" Vargas said, adding that the slide had dragged houses packed with sleeping families some 1,300 feet (400 meters) down the hillside along with cars, livestock and light poles.\"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen,\" Vargas said. \"We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"One person was reported killed in a mudslide in another Oaxaca community, Villa Hidalgo, and 30 people were killed Monday in a slide in Colombia. Heavy rains, including some delivered by the remnants of Hurricane Karl and then Tropical Storm Matthew, also have produced deadly floods in southern Mexico and Central America.Oaxaca Civil Protection operations coordinator Luis Marin said the state had seen three days straight of intense rain. The state government warned residents south of the city of Oaxaca of flooding from overflowing rivers and opened shelters in other parts of the state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide less deadly than feared"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-09-29T05:29:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Eleven people are missing after a mudslide hit a remote town in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, officials said this morning.Hundreds of people were believed to have been buried in the slide, which hit the town of Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec early yesterday, but Mexico's interior minister, Francisco Blake, and the governor of Oaxaca, Ulises Ruiz, both said the slide was not the catastrophe first feared.\"So far no one is confirmed dead, only 11 missing who we hope ... will be found,\" Ruiz said..Initial reports the rural mountain town 373 miles (600km) south-east of Mexico City said a hillside collapsed on hundreds of sleeping residents after several days of heavy rains in the aftermath of a hurricane and tropical storm that hit Mexico and Central America.Civil protection authorities first reported seven people killed and at least 100 missing, but Ruiz later reported casualties as four dead and 12 missing.Jose Alfredo Garcia, spokesman for Mexico's interior department, said initial reports were based on the number of homes hit by the mudslide, but at the time no federal or state officials had reached the site to check the estimates.Communications with the town were difficult after the pre-dawn slide. Soldiers and civil protection and Red Cross workers couldn't reach the area for nearly 10 hours because mud and rocks blocked roads and a bridge was damaged, while bad weather prevented helicopters from being used.Mexican president Felipe Calderon yesterday reported on his Twitter account that an army commander and 30 soldiers had reached the town by foot and that there was a lot of damage, but \"perhaps not of the magnitude initially reported\".Donato Vargas, an official in Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec reached by a satellite telephone, had said as many as 300 homes were believed to buried, and residents who made it out early in the morning said they had no success digging out neighbours.\"We have been using a backhoe but there is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" Vargas said, adding that the slide had dragged houses packed with sleeping families some 1,300 feet (400 meters) down the hillside along with cars, livestock and light poles.\"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen,\" Vargas said. \"We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"One person was reported killed in a mudslide in another Oaxaca community, Villa Hidalgo, and 30 people were killed Monday in a slide in Colombia. Heavy rains, including some delivered by the remnants of Hurricane Karl and then Tropical Storm Matthew, also have produced deadly floods in southern Mexico and Central America.Oaxaca Civil Protection operations coordinator Luis Marin said the state had seen three days straight of intense rain. The state government warned residents south of the city of Oaxaca of flooding from overflowing rivers and opened shelters in other parts of the state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide less deadly than feared"},{"date": "2010-09-28T19:28:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hundreds of people arefeared to have died after a landslide devastated a town in a remote mountainous area of the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.Torrential rain loosened a hillside and sent tonnes of earth crashing down on to parts of the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec early today.The mud and rock broke loose at around 4am and engulfed between 100-300 houses where families were sleeping, said the state governor, Ulises Ruiz. \"There could be 500 or 600 people [dead]. Perhaps 1,000,\" he told Televisa.Survivors were struggling to dig out neighbours, Donato Vargas, a resident, told AP by satellite phone.\"There is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" he said.The avalanche swept houses 1,300ft downhill along with cars and animals, said Vargas. \"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen. We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"Vargas said he contacted the governor on the town's satellite phone but eight hours after the slide no rescue crews had reached the area. \"There is no way to communicate. The roads are shut down. All we have is this satellite phone,\" Vargas said.Army, navy, marine and civil response teams with rescue dogs were scrambling to reach the town in treacherous weather. Two Puma helicopters were unable to land and had to return to Oaxaca airport. \"We are sending machinery, there are soldiers from the Mexican army, the navy, state police, ambulances, health personnel and rescue workers,\" said the governor. \"We hope to get there in time to rescue some of the people who have been buried.\"The first rescuers to arrive on the scene reported eight confirmed dead but the toll was expected to rise sharply once digging equipment arrived. Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, with a population of about 9,000, is only about 40 miles from the state capital of Oaxaca but largely unpaved winding mountain roads make it a three-hour drive even in normal conditions.Fausto Martinez, a rescue worker, told Telesur broadcaster that the Oaxaca civil protection force had received a satellite phone call from a resident before dawn. \"They said the mountain had collapsed and a lot of people were in their homes because of the hour. It's been difficult to get in by road so we are preparing specialist teams to get in by air.\"Survivors from the landslide were taken to temporary refuges, he said. The worst-hit area covered five to 10 hectares but water and electricity services to the entire town were disrupted, said Martinez.A picturesque colonial town, Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec has a population of about 9,000, mostly Mixe Indians. Another landslide in the nearby community of Villa Hidalgo left hundreds homeless and killed at least one person.Mexico is suffering one of its most intense rainy seasons in living memory. Flooding has forced thousands from their homes across southern Mexico in the past week. So far about 20 people have died in floods that began in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz and spread to the state of Chiapas at the weekend. In the past week separate storm systems have drenched the Caribbean, central America, Venezuela and Colombia, washing away homes, blocking roads and forcing thousands to seek refuge. About 30 people were buried yesterday by a landslide north-west of Bogota, Colombia's capital. Many were changing from one bus to another because a mountain road was blocked.The alarm was raised in Oaxaca yesterday when at least four rivers broke their banks. A bridge to Oaxaca airport fractured and another outside the city collapsed. Local authorities set up shelters to house hundreds of people whose houses were flooded in the lowland isthmus of Tehuantepec in the south of the state. Phone lines between Mexico City and the state capital appeared to be down.Tabata Anton, an official at a technical college based in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, said by phone from the state capital that blocked roads had forced teachers trying to get to the town on Monday to turn around. There had been no communication with the institute's approximately 60 students from the town.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Hundreds feared dead in Mexico landslide"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-09-29T05:29:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Eleven people are missing after a mudslide hit a remote town in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, officials said this morning.Hundreds of people were believed to have been buried in the slide, which hit the town of Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec early yesterday, but Mexico's interior minister, Francisco Blake, and the governor of Oaxaca, Ulises Ruiz, both said the slide was not the catastrophe first feared.\"So far no one is confirmed dead, only 11 missing who we hope ... will be found,\" Ruiz said..Initial reports the rural mountain town 373 miles (600km) south-east of Mexico City said a hillside collapsed on hundreds of sleeping residents after several days of heavy rains in the aftermath of a hurricane and tropical storm that hit Mexico and Central America.Civil protection authorities first reported seven people killed and at least 100 missing, but Ruiz later reported casualties as four dead and 12 missing.Jose Alfredo Garcia, spokesman for Mexico's interior department, said initial reports were based on the number of homes hit by the mudslide, but at the time no federal or state officials had reached the site to check the estimates.Communications with the town were difficult after the pre-dawn slide. Soldiers and civil protection and Red Cross workers couldn't reach the area for nearly 10 hours because mud and rocks blocked roads and a bridge was damaged, while bad weather prevented helicopters from being used.Mexican president Felipe Calderon yesterday reported on his Twitter account that an army commander and 30 soldiers had reached the town by foot and that there was a lot of damage, but \"perhaps not of the magnitude initially reported\".Donato Vargas, an official in Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec reached by a satellite telephone, had said as many as 300 homes were believed to buried, and residents who made it out early in the morning said they had no success digging out neighbours.\"We have been using a backhoe but there is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" Vargas said, adding that the slide had dragged houses packed with sleeping families some 1,300 feet (400 meters) down the hillside along with cars, livestock and light poles.\"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen,\" Vargas said. \"We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"One person was reported killed in a mudslide in another Oaxaca community, Villa Hidalgo, and 30 people were killed Monday in a slide in Colombia. Heavy rains, including some delivered by the remnants of Hurricane Karl and then Tropical Storm Matthew, also have produced deadly floods in southern Mexico and Central America.Oaxaca Civil Protection operations coordinator Luis Marin said the state had seen three days straight of intense rain. The state government warned residents south of the city of Oaxaca of flooding from overflowing rivers and opened shelters in other parts of the state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide less deadly than feared"},{"date": "2010-09-28T19:28:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hundreds of people arefeared to have died after a landslide devastated a town in a remote mountainous area of the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.Torrential rain loosened a hillside and sent tonnes of earth crashing down on to parts of the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec early today.The mud and rock broke loose at around 4am and engulfed between 100-300 houses where families were sleeping, said the state governor, Ulises Ruiz. \"There could be 500 or 600 people [dead]. Perhaps 1,000,\" he told Televisa.Survivors were struggling to dig out neighbours, Donato Vargas, a resident, told AP by satellite phone.\"There is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" he said.The avalanche swept houses 1,300ft downhill along with cars and animals, said Vargas. \"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen. We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"Vargas said he contacted the governor on the town's satellite phone but eight hours after the slide no rescue crews had reached the area. \"There is no way to communicate. The roads are shut down. All we have is this satellite phone,\" Vargas said.Army, navy, marine and civil response teams with rescue dogs were scrambling to reach the town in treacherous weather. Two Puma helicopters were unable to land and had to return to Oaxaca airport. \"We are sending machinery, there are soldiers from the Mexican army, the navy, state police, ambulances, health personnel and rescue workers,\" said the governor. \"We hope to get there in time to rescue some of the people who have been buried.\"The first rescuers to arrive on the scene reported eight confirmed dead but the toll was expected to rise sharply once digging equipment arrived. Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, with a population of about 9,000, is only about 40 miles from the state capital of Oaxaca but largely unpaved winding mountain roads make it a three-hour drive even in normal conditions.Fausto Martinez, a rescue worker, told Telesur broadcaster that the Oaxaca civil protection force had received a satellite phone call from a resident before dawn. \"They said the mountain had collapsed and a lot of people were in their homes because of the hour. It's been difficult to get in by road so we are preparing specialist teams to get in by air.\"Survivors from the landslide were taken to temporary refuges, he said. The worst-hit area covered five to 10 hectares but water and electricity services to the entire town were disrupted, said Martinez.A picturesque colonial town, Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec has a population of about 9,000, mostly Mixe Indians. Another landslide in the nearby community of Villa Hidalgo left hundreds homeless and killed at least one person.Mexico is suffering one of its most intense rainy seasons in living memory. Flooding has forced thousands from their homes across southern Mexico in the past week. So far about 20 people have died in floods that began in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz and spread to the state of Chiapas at the weekend. In the past week separate storm systems have drenched the Caribbean, central America, Venezuela and Colombia, washing away homes, blocking roads and forcing thousands to seek refuge. About 30 people were buried yesterday by a landslide north-west of Bogota, Colombia's capital. Many were changing from one bus to another because a mountain road was blocked.The alarm was raised in Oaxaca yesterday when at least four rivers broke their banks. A bridge to Oaxaca airport fractured and another outside the city collapsed. Local authorities set up shelters to house hundreds of people whose houses were flooded in the lowland isthmus of Tehuantepec in the south of the state. Phone lines between Mexico City and the state capital appeared to be down.Tabata Anton, an official at a technical college based in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, said by phone from the state capital that blocked roads had forced teachers trying to get to the town on Monday to turn around. There had been no communication with the institute's approximately 60 students from the town.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Hundreds feared dead in Mexico landslide"},{"date": "2010-07-02T23:05:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Texas is big. And, if you visit Dallas and Houston, awfully bland. Even Austin, now home to the super-hip South By Southwest music expo and film festival, resembles a super-sized suburb with constant traffic gridlock. To those looking for a genuine Texan rose, I would suggest San Antonio \u2013 quite possibly, my favourite American city. It surprises me that so few people \u2013 US citizens and Europeans alike \u2013 seem to be aware of its charms. But in some ways I like that, for aren't secret love affairs meant to be the most tantalising?San Antonio is superior to all other Texas cities. For starters, it has a centre, a heart. From there, San Antonio can be explored on foot. That the majority of the city's inhabitants are Hispanic lends San Antonio a soulful, Latin ambience. It also means there are countless great Mexican food outlets and the sound of Tejano \u2013 a Tex-Mex musical hybrid \u2013 echoes out of bars and clubs.Most people know one thing about San Antonio: the Alamo. Indeed, the fortified mission where Davy Crockett and allies fought a futile last stand against Mexican forces in 1836 (Texas then being part of Mexico) remains the city's centrepiece. After watching the likes of John Wayne and Billy Bob Thornton defend the Alamo, I was surprised by how small it is. The solid Spanish mission architecture recalls a time when San Antonio was the wild frontier, and its thick walls do provide respite from the southern heat.While many US cities appear to regard walking as a fairly suspicious kind of activity, San Antonio encourages strolling. Nowhere is this lovelier than the Paseo del R\u00edo (River Walk), cobble and flagstone paths that extend for 21 blocks (almost three miles) along the San Antonio river.By the time I felt the need for a drink, I'd lost count of the number of blocks I'd walked. Seeing a sign for a bar, I hiked up an iron staircase to the Esquire Tavern (155 East Commerce St), and felt as if I'd stepped on to the set of a Sam Peckinpah film. Founded in 1933, the Esquire is the only bar on the River Walk that caters for locals rather than tourists. The original 76ft-long bar and the ceiling fans survive, as does a magnificent jukebox packed with classic blues, soul, rock'n'roll and Tejano tunes. When three strolling mariachis entered, the jukebox was unplugged and they began playing. A heavily tattooed patron, disgruntled by the slow flow of tips, stood up and shouted: \"Give 'em a buck!\" From then on dollars flew thick and fast while the mariachis sang superb corridos (narrative songs that serve as a Mexican blues). The Esquire, I should also note, serves Shiner Bock \u2013 indisputably Texas's finest beer \u2013 in long-neck glasses. On a hot Texan afternoon, I was in heaven.San Antonio is a legendary music town, with the city's bars providing a training ground for many rising country, rock, blues and Tejano stars. Best known to British audiences would be the late Doug Sahm, whose rocking Tex-Mex blend on hits such as Mendocino and She's About a Mover won him an international following and helped shine the spotlight on local Tejano heroes Freddy Fender and Flaco Jim\u00e9nez. But the city's greatest musical icon remains Lydia Mendoza (1916\u20132007), the undisputed queen of Mexican\u2013American music. Mendoza grew up singing on the streets of San Antonio, made her first recordings here in 1928 and rose to superstar status (among Spanish speakers in the US and Latin America) with songs such as Amor Bonito. The ultimate tribute to Mendoza can be found at Del Bravo Records (554 West Old US Highway 90), an old-school record shop that still stocks vinyl. Its affable 79-year-old owner, Salome Guti\u00e9rrez, has extended Del Bravo to include a Tejas y su Musica (The Texas Music Museum) honouring Lydia and other local artists. Lydia's guitar is on display, and I knelt before it.On a larger, if less personal, scale is the magnificent Institute of Texan Cultures, in HemisFair Park, close to the Alamo. The Institute offers superb exhibitions and hosts the Texas Folklife Festival every June, where more than 250 participants come together to celebrate their culture and heritage via music, dance, arts and food. And what food! San Antonio prides itself on superb Mexican and barbecue restaurants.San Antonio's annual Tejano-Conjunto festival (every May) is also a must for anyone enthusiastic about Texan vernacular music. \"Tejano\" is Spanish for \"Texan\" while \"Conjunto\" means \"group\" or \"ensemble\", and the music made across this festival focuses on the accordion as the voice of cultural expression and Tejano pride. Both festivals are a bargain: daily entry is $7 for Tejano-Conjunto and $10 for Folklife. Also noteworthy is November's Day of the Dead festival, where the city's Mexican traditions reign.And outside of festival periods, San Antonio boasts a rich live music scene. The North St Mary's Street club strip is convenient to the downtown area and cover charges for most venues are rarely more than $10. Among countless bars offering loud rock, a fistful worth checking are Cool Arrows (1025 Nogalitos Street) and Salut\u00e9 International Bar (2801 N Saint Mary's), both featuring Tejano bands and DJs; Casbeers, founded in 1932, has recently shifted to 1150 South Alamo St and offers fine food and leathery singer-songwriters; Cowboys Dancehall (3030 North East Loop 410) lives up to its name, with everyone wearing Stetsons and line dancing to slick country bands. Going to local bars and clubs means experiencing local customs: frisking for weapons may accompany your entry.Unlike so many US cities, where the downtown areas are dead after dark and chain restaurants dominate, San Antonio thrives on its multicultural identity. Doug Sahm once sang \"you just can't live in Texas if you don't have a lot of soul\", and in San Antonio that is as true as ever.\u2022 The Gunter Hotel (gunterhotel.com), where blues legend Robert Johnson recorded his first 16 songs for Paramount in 1936, has doubles from around $250 per night. Flights from London to San Antonio, booked on kayak.co.uk, start at around \u00a3460 returnMore Miles Than Money: Journeys Through American Music, by Garth Cartwright, is published by Serpent's Tail (serpentstail.com, \u00a312.99)", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Bars and clubs", "City breaks", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Country"], "title": "San Antonio: down Mexico way"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-09-29T05:29:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Eleven people are missing after a mudslide hit a remote town in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, officials said this morning.Hundreds of people were believed to have been buried in the slide, which hit the town of Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec early yesterday, but Mexico's interior minister, Francisco Blake, and the governor of Oaxaca, Ulises Ruiz, both said the slide was not the catastrophe first feared.\"So far no one is confirmed dead, only 11 missing who we hope ... will be found,\" Ruiz said..Initial reports the rural mountain town 373 miles (600km) south-east of Mexico City said a hillside collapsed on hundreds of sleeping residents after several days of heavy rains in the aftermath of a hurricane and tropical storm that hit Mexico and Central America.Civil protection authorities first reported seven people killed and at least 100 missing, but Ruiz later reported casualties as four dead and 12 missing.Jose Alfredo Garcia, spokesman for Mexico's interior department, said initial reports were based on the number of homes hit by the mudslide, but at the time no federal or state officials had reached the site to check the estimates.Communications with the town were difficult after the pre-dawn slide. Soldiers and civil protection and Red Cross workers couldn't reach the area for nearly 10 hours because mud and rocks blocked roads and a bridge was damaged, while bad weather prevented helicopters from being used.Mexican president Felipe Calderon yesterday reported on his Twitter account that an army commander and 30 soldiers had reached the town by foot and that there was a lot of damage, but \"perhaps not of the magnitude initially reported\".Donato Vargas, an official in Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec reached by a satellite telephone, had said as many as 300 homes were believed to buried, and residents who made it out early in the morning said they had no success digging out neighbours.\"We have been using a backhoe but there is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" Vargas said, adding that the slide had dragged houses packed with sleeping families some 1,300 feet (400 meters) down the hillside along with cars, livestock and light poles.\"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen,\" Vargas said. \"We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"One person was reported killed in a mudslide in another Oaxaca community, Villa Hidalgo, and 30 people were killed Monday in a slide in Colombia. Heavy rains, including some delivered by the remnants of Hurricane Karl and then Tropical Storm Matthew, also have produced deadly floods in southern Mexico and Central America.Oaxaca Civil Protection operations coordinator Luis Marin said the state had seen three days straight of intense rain. The state government warned residents south of the city of Oaxaca of flooding from overflowing rivers and opened shelters in other parts of the state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide less deadly than feared"},{"date": "2010-09-28T19:28:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hundreds of people arefeared to have died after a landslide devastated a town in a remote mountainous area of the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.Torrential rain loosened a hillside and sent tonnes of earth crashing down on to parts of the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec early today.The mud and rock broke loose at around 4am and engulfed between 100-300 houses where families were sleeping, said the state governor, Ulises Ruiz. \"There could be 500 or 600 people [dead]. Perhaps 1,000,\" he told Televisa.Survivors were struggling to dig out neighbours, Donato Vargas, a resident, told AP by satellite phone.\"There is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" he said.The avalanche swept houses 1,300ft downhill along with cars and animals, said Vargas. \"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen. We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"Vargas said he contacted the governor on the town's satellite phone but eight hours after the slide no rescue crews had reached the area. \"There is no way to communicate. The roads are shut down. All we have is this satellite phone,\" Vargas said.Army, navy, marine and civil response teams with rescue dogs were scrambling to reach the town in treacherous weather. Two Puma helicopters were unable to land and had to return to Oaxaca airport. \"We are sending machinery, there are soldiers from the Mexican army, the navy, state police, ambulances, health personnel and rescue workers,\" said the governor. \"We hope to get there in time to rescue some of the people who have been buried.\"The first rescuers to arrive on the scene reported eight confirmed dead but the toll was expected to rise sharply once digging equipment arrived. Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, with a population of about 9,000, is only about 40 miles from the state capital of Oaxaca but largely unpaved winding mountain roads make it a three-hour drive even in normal conditions.Fausto Martinez, a rescue worker, told Telesur broadcaster that the Oaxaca civil protection force had received a satellite phone call from a resident before dawn. \"They said the mountain had collapsed and a lot of people were in their homes because of the hour. It's been difficult to get in by road so we are preparing specialist teams to get in by air.\"Survivors from the landslide were taken to temporary refuges, he said. The worst-hit area covered five to 10 hectares but water and electricity services to the entire town were disrupted, said Martinez.A picturesque colonial town, Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec has a population of about 9,000, mostly Mixe Indians. Another landslide in the nearby community of Villa Hidalgo left hundreds homeless and killed at least one person.Mexico is suffering one of its most intense rainy seasons in living memory. Flooding has forced thousands from their homes across southern Mexico in the past week. So far about 20 people have died in floods that began in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz and spread to the state of Chiapas at the weekend. In the past week separate storm systems have drenched the Caribbean, central America, Venezuela and Colombia, washing away homes, blocking roads and forcing thousands to seek refuge. About 30 people were buried yesterday by a landslide north-west of Bogota, Colombia's capital. Many were changing from one bus to another because a mountain road was blocked.The alarm was raised in Oaxaca yesterday when at least four rivers broke their banks. A bridge to Oaxaca airport fractured and another outside the city collapsed. Local authorities set up shelters to house hundreds of people whose houses were flooded in the lowland isthmus of Tehuantepec in the south of the state. Phone lines between Mexico City and the state capital appeared to be down.Tabata Anton, an official at a technical college based in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, said by phone from the state capital that blocked roads had forced teachers trying to get to the town on Monday to turn around. There had been no communication with the institute's approximately 60 students from the town.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Hundreds feared dead in Mexico landslide"},{"date": "2010-07-02T23:05:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Texas is big. And, if you visit Dallas and Houston, awfully bland. Even Austin, now home to the super-hip South By Southwest music expo and film festival, resembles a super-sized suburb with constant traffic gridlock. To those looking for a genuine Texan rose, I would suggest San Antonio \u2013 quite possibly, my favourite American city. It surprises me that so few people \u2013 US citizens and Europeans alike \u2013 seem to be aware of its charms. But in some ways I like that, for aren't secret love affairs meant to be the most tantalising?San Antonio is superior to all other Texas cities. For starters, it has a centre, a heart. From there, San Antonio can be explored on foot. That the majority of the city's inhabitants are Hispanic lends San Antonio a soulful, Latin ambience. It also means there are countless great Mexican food outlets and the sound of Tejano \u2013 a Tex-Mex musical hybrid \u2013 echoes out of bars and clubs.Most people know one thing about San Antonio: the Alamo. Indeed, the fortified mission where Davy Crockett and allies fought a futile last stand against Mexican forces in 1836 (Texas then being part of Mexico) remains the city's centrepiece. After watching the likes of John Wayne and Billy Bob Thornton defend the Alamo, I was surprised by how small it is. The solid Spanish mission architecture recalls a time when San Antonio was the wild frontier, and its thick walls do provide respite from the southern heat.While many US cities appear to regard walking as a fairly suspicious kind of activity, San Antonio encourages strolling. Nowhere is this lovelier than the Paseo del R\u00edo (River Walk), cobble and flagstone paths that extend for 21 blocks (almost three miles) along the San Antonio river.By the time I felt the need for a drink, I'd lost count of the number of blocks I'd walked. Seeing a sign for a bar, I hiked up an iron staircase to the Esquire Tavern (155 East Commerce St), and felt as if I'd stepped on to the set of a Sam Peckinpah film. Founded in 1933, the Esquire is the only bar on the River Walk that caters for locals rather than tourists. The original 76ft-long bar and the ceiling fans survive, as does a magnificent jukebox packed with classic blues, soul, rock'n'roll and Tejano tunes. When three strolling mariachis entered, the jukebox was unplugged and they began playing. A heavily tattooed patron, disgruntled by the slow flow of tips, stood up and shouted: \"Give 'em a buck!\" From then on dollars flew thick and fast while the mariachis sang superb corridos (narrative songs that serve as a Mexican blues). The Esquire, I should also note, serves Shiner Bock \u2013 indisputably Texas's finest beer \u2013 in long-neck glasses. On a hot Texan afternoon, I was in heaven.San Antonio is a legendary music town, with the city's bars providing a training ground for many rising country, rock, blues and Tejano stars. Best known to British audiences would be the late Doug Sahm, whose rocking Tex-Mex blend on hits such as Mendocino and She's About a Mover won him an international following and helped shine the spotlight on local Tejano heroes Freddy Fender and Flaco Jim\u00e9nez. But the city's greatest musical icon remains Lydia Mendoza (1916\u20132007), the undisputed queen of Mexican\u2013American music. Mendoza grew up singing on the streets of San Antonio, made her first recordings here in 1928 and rose to superstar status (among Spanish speakers in the US and Latin America) with songs such as Amor Bonito. The ultimate tribute to Mendoza can be found at Del Bravo Records (554 West Old US Highway 90), an old-school record shop that still stocks vinyl. Its affable 79-year-old owner, Salome Guti\u00e9rrez, has extended Del Bravo to include a Tejas y su Musica (The Texas Music Museum) honouring Lydia and other local artists. Lydia's guitar is on display, and I knelt before it.On a larger, if less personal, scale is the magnificent Institute of Texan Cultures, in HemisFair Park, close to the Alamo. The Institute offers superb exhibitions and hosts the Texas Folklife Festival every June, where more than 250 participants come together to celebrate their culture and heritage via music, dance, arts and food. And what food! San Antonio prides itself on superb Mexican and barbecue restaurants.San Antonio's annual Tejano-Conjunto festival (every May) is also a must for anyone enthusiastic about Texan vernacular music. \"Tejano\" is Spanish for \"Texan\" while \"Conjunto\" means \"group\" or \"ensemble\", and the music made across this festival focuses on the accordion as the voice of cultural expression and Tejano pride. Both festivals are a bargain: daily entry is $7 for Tejano-Conjunto and $10 for Folklife. Also noteworthy is November's Day of the Dead festival, where the city's Mexican traditions reign.And outside of festival periods, San Antonio boasts a rich live music scene. The North St Mary's Street club strip is convenient to the downtown area and cover charges for most venues are rarely more than $10. Among countless bars offering loud rock, a fistful worth checking are Cool Arrows (1025 Nogalitos Street) and Salut\u00e9 International Bar (2801 N Saint Mary's), both featuring Tejano bands and DJs; Casbeers, founded in 1932, has recently shifted to 1150 South Alamo St and offers fine food and leathery singer-songwriters; Cowboys Dancehall (3030 North East Loop 410) lives up to its name, with everyone wearing Stetsons and line dancing to slick country bands. Going to local bars and clubs means experiencing local customs: frisking for weapons may accompany your entry.Unlike so many US cities, where the downtown areas are dead after dark and chain restaurants dominate, San Antonio thrives on its multicultural identity. Doug Sahm once sang \"you just can't live in Texas if you don't have a lot of soul\", and in San Antonio that is as true as ever.\u2022 The Gunter Hotel (gunterhotel.com), where blues legend Robert Johnson recorded his first 16 songs for Paramount in 1936, has doubles from around $250 per night. Flights from London to San Antonio, booked on kayak.co.uk, start at around \u00a3460 returnMore Miles Than Money: Journeys Through American Music, by Garth Cartwright, is published by Serpent's Tail (serpentstail.com, \u00a312.99)", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Bars and clubs", "City breaks", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Country"], "title": "San Antonio: down Mexico way"},{"date": "2010-09-03T14:54:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The events which have no name scythe through the valley like invisible reapers. They slice east to west, west to east, a homicidal pendulum. No one sees anything.The pair of human heads left in a coolbox on the corner of the plaza? A mystery. The 18 houses burnt in a single night? An enigma. The doctor and his family who disappeared? A rumour.This much residents do tell you: Ju\u00e1rez valley stretches along the Rio Bravo and used to grow cotton. It roasts by day, shivers by night. Lob a stone over the river and it lands in Texas.Beyond that, conversation tends to dry up. Of the slaughter, of the reason this has become one of the deadliest places on the planet, residents have little to say. At most they refer to \"the situation\", \"the things happening\" or, simply, \"it\".Manuel Robles, curator of the valley museum in the hamlet of San Agust\u00edn, can talk about dinosaur fossils and Apaches but not unfolding history. Pressed, he rubs rheumy eyes, gazes out the window and falls silent. Finally he says: \"If I tell you, tomorrow I won't be here. They'll kill me.\"It's as close as you get to an acknowledgment that this valley of a dozen villages and towns, once home to 20,000 people, has detached from Mexico and entered a realm beyond any map. There is no state here, no rule of law. There are killings and beheadings and burnings and no one sees anything.The official explanation is that the Sinaloa cartel is challenging the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel for a venerable gun and drug trafficking route to the United States. Just as Billy the Kid coveted this trail, so do modern outlaws.It is perhaps the loneliest corner of what is termed Mexico's drug war. More than 500 people are estimated to have died here in the past four years, a per capita toll far worse than Iraq or Afghanistan. Nationwide 28,000 have died.As violence raked up and down the valley, exterminating entire families, an exodus began. By the time a church was torched and anonymous notes warned of an imminent bloodbath most were gone, leaving blackened, boarded-up ghost towns. Nature, at least, is thriving: weeds festoon carcasses of abandoned pick-up trucks.The cemetery outside Guadalupe, the biggest town, is a scorched, desolate place with fresh mounds. \"Four in the past week, all young ones,\" says Ignacio Montes, 66, the gravedigger. A cloth hangs from his baseball cap.He indicates a family plot: Omar Amaya, mayor, killed in 2006, aged 33; his father, Apolonio, also mayor, killed in 2007, aged 59; Omar's sister Aglae, aged 29, and mother, Maria, aged 57, both killed in 2008.\"They go after the relatives, you see,\" says Montes. During a burial in 2008 gunmen ambushed mourners, killing the dead man's daughter and wounding his granddaughter. \"It doesn't stop,\" says Montes. He recently found a 16-year-old boy's battered body dumped on a grave.Victor Luque, 53, is the acting mayor of Guadalupe. His predecessor was assassinated two months ago, the town's fourth murdered mayor. Urbane, courteous and elegant in a white guayabera, Luque agrees to an interview.What is going on in the valley? \"I really don't know.\" Who is doing the killing? \"I really don't know.\" Who is responsible for security? \"I really don't know.\" How many people have fled? \"I really don't know.\" The mantra almost becomes a joke. The mayor shrugs, smiles. He knows this exchange is ridiculous. He floats a metaphor. The \"situation\", he says, is \"a perfect storm\". There is a local expression: \"Hasta el viento tiene miedo\". Even the wind is afraid. In this town hall, with its black ribbons, bleached peach paintwork and near-empty offices, terror is in the heavy stillness.Momentarily dropping the charade, Luque mentions he has no bodyguard. \"What would be the point? If they decide to kill you then there would be two bodies instead of one.\" Who would \"they\" be? The mayor smiles again. \"I really don't know.\"But someone knows a lot about the valley. During the Guardian's tour there was barely another vehicle or soul in sight. Yet the next day the guide's family received an anonymous phone call detailing our entire itinerary \u2013 who we met, what we discussed, even places where we slowed but did not stop \u2013 with precision.Mexico's agony is ritually explained as a turf war between drug cartels. Group A versus Group B versus Group C. A savage conflict, but the mayhem, according to authorities, is a sign of cartels' desperation. Slowly but surely the state is prevailing thanks to brave soldiers and police. \"My government is absolutely determined to continue fighting against criminality without quarter until we put a stop to this common enemy and obtain the Mexico we want,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n, who declared war against cartels in 2006, said in recent newspaper advertisements.Ju\u00e1rez valley suggests otherwise. It is proof of profound failure, says Gustavo de la Rosa, the state human rights commissioner. \"It is abandoned, a land without law.\" One reason, he says, is a lack of political will. \"There are few votes there so politicians ignore it. The place has gone back to the 1880s.\"In fact the state is present in the form of the army, which has cameras and checkpoints with sandbags on the only road in and out. The soldiers' presence, however, prompts the question: why did they watch thousands of residents flee \u2013 convoys of furniture-packed trucks \u2013 and do nothing. \"What's the point of them?\" says Jos\u00e9 Sereseres, 84, a lone soul in a cowboy hat on the main street of Caseta village.If there is a pattern to the slaughter it is that Sinaloa is exterminating suspected Ju\u00e1rez cartel members and their relatives. Rocio Gallegas, an editor at Ju\u00e1rez's main newspaper, El Diario, says the security forces must have intelligence about what is happening. \"It's not possible that they don't know.\"Authorities did catch Jos\u00e9 Rudolfo Escajeda, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel's valley enforcer, but a Sinaloa commander, nicknamed Quitapuercos \u2013 pig killer \u2013 is believed to remain free. It suggests, say some, that the army is tacitly backing Sinaloa.A similar pattern emerges in Ju\u00e1rez city. On the surface things looks normal. Shops and schools are open, there is rush-hour traffic and fast-food restaurants are packed at lunchtime. The scythe, however, is busy. More than 6,000 have been murdered since 2008, a shocking total for a city of just 1.3 million. Last month was the bloodiest yet: 363 dead, according to El Diario's count.It is less immediately obvious than in the valley, but the city is ebbing away. Many offices and houses are empty and have \"for sale\" signs outside. About 10,670 businesses \u2013 40% of the total \u2013 have shut. A study by the city's university found that 116,000 houses have been abandoned and 230,000 people have left.Ju\u00e1rez is the main gateway between Mexico and the US. Railways and roads converge here, as do smugglers. \"Poor Mexico, so far from God, so close to the United States,\" the dictator Porfirio Diaz observed in the 19th century. With the US the world's biggest market for illegal drugs the quip still holds.Just as in the valley, security forces in the city are an oxymoron. Their absence breeds insecurity, their presence breeds insecurity. They prey on the population, kidnapping and extorting in cahoots with criminal gangs, according to multiple complaints filed to the human rights commission. In an opinion poll published last week 39% of people cited official corruption as the main driver of violence. Narco-trafficking \u2013 despite government claims and media echoes \u2013 was cited by a mere 14.6%.It is a disturbing finding. Here in the broiling desert heat the boundary between warring criminal groups and the state, a comforting delineation within the drug war, blurs and shimmers. Soldiers and police \u2013 and elected officials \u2013 fight with, as well as against criminal gangs. \"Our security forces are infiltrated and there are links between criminal groups and certain politicians,\" says De La Rosa, the human rights commissioner. \"The way they work is to strengthen each other and the phenomenon is getting worse. There are some politicians who flaunt their connections.\"A large man with a rumpled shirt, snowy beard and hair pulled into a ponytail, the commissioner resembles a hippy Santa Claus but is a tough, shrewd operator. He investigates human rights abuses with a small team of young assistants; one of the few state agencies credited with working as it should.For protection De La Rosa sleeps across the border in El Paso and travels to Ju\u00e1rez every day with 12 bodyguards. In between fielding phone calls on the latest atrocities and rumours he coaxes testimony from frightened families.He is an outspoken critic of a government strategy that, he says, allows crooked politicians and financiers to go free. \"There are untouchables.\"When thousands of army troops deployed in 2008 the violence briefly abated. A well-placed source from city hall, a sophisticated, cultured man, smiles at the memory. \"It was a cleaning. And it worked.\" What he means is death squads took out mid-ranking narcos, including crooked police.The campaign has never been officially admitted. \"But the cleaning stopped after a few months,\" rued the official. \"That was a mistake.\" The authorities did not anticipate how quickly criminal gangs would rebound and co-opt security forces, he said.Police have replaced the army on the streets. They are seen as ineffectual at best, predatory and murderous at worst. Business owners who spoke on condition of anonymity accused officers of treating the city as booty. \"If you don't pay, you risk disappearing, that's the game,\" said one car showroom manager.Despite shake-ups, municipal and state police are still regarded as loyal to the homegrown cartel, a tradition going back decades. Federal police, outsiders brought in for the drug war, have become linked with the Sinaloa interlopers. Last month 250 officers roughed up and arrested their own commanders, accusing them of siding with narco-traffickers. A mutiny of the honest, say optimists; a row over \"cuota\", the levy the force charges on civilians, say others.Arrest statistics fuel suspicions of favouritism. Of 81,128 drug-related arrests until the end of July some 24% were from Sinaloa, the oldest and mightiest cartel. The motive, apart from pay-offs, supposedly would be to end turf wars by promoting one cartel's hegemony. Calderon indignantly denies favouritism, but the nature of violence in Ju\u00e1rez suggests local commanders \u2013 with or without approval from Mexico City \u2013 have cut deals with Sinaloa.The Ju\u00e1rez cartel, fearing extinction, has lashed back at the black-uniformed \"federales\" who allegedly back their rivals. An urban guerrilla onslaught has killed about 40 officers since April. The campaign includes drive-by shootings, kidnappings, car bombs \u2013 and a surreal request to the FBI to investigate their Mexican counterparts.On a particularly hot morning last week a patch of asphalt on Bulevar Ampliacion Cuatro Siglos revealed a new cartel tactic: it started with a bloodied, naked foot, continued with chunks of leg, then a trunk, then arms, hands and finally, 200 metres further, a head on the bonnet of a black Nissan. The quartered remains of federal police officer Hector Mendoza Guevara, aged 25. There was a placard: \"This is what happens to those who help Chapo.\" Joaquin \"El Chapo\" Guzman is the boss of Sinaloa.Any police force would be shaken by the sight, but the grisly tableau's arrangement seemed designed to instill terror in young officers from parts of southern Mexico where superstition and belief in sorcery are common. Those at the scene were ashen. \"Get away! Fuck off!\" one screamed at onlookers.In Ju\u00e1rez good news passes for this: the federales are so busy trying to stay alive that they recently suspended their extortion rackets, according to business owners. The force spokesman declined interview requests for this article.With killings averaging about a dozen a day, and businesses fleeing, the city edges ever closer to the Hobbesian dystopia of the valley 50 miles east. Each day brings fresh horrors. Two men stabbed and left to die face-down in a dump. Six people incinerated in a van. Two cyclists gunned down on the street. A child shot on the family porch. That was just one day. Before lunch.\"It amuses me when various experts in the US or Mexican government, or in the media, try to explain what's going on,\" said Charles Bowden, a veteran chronicler of the border and author of Murder City: Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and the Global Economy's New Killing Fields. \"The thing about Ju\u00e1rez is you can't see a pattern to the violence anymore. Killings are everywhere. They cross all class lines. You can't make sense of it.\"There are an estimated 500 gangs in the city, many drawn from slums where parents work in sweatshop factories that pay $40 (\u00a326) a week. Some gangs are independent, some work for the cartels, some work for the police and some have no idea whom they work for. They just take orders over the phone from unknown bosses.Few murders are investigated let alone solved. Even when suspects are arrested and paraded before TV cameras they are, according to numerous media investigations, often freed days later for want of evidence, prison space or judicial will. \"It's like a war in which no one remembers how it started. No one controls the killing now, it's got a life of its own,\" said Bowden.Unable to staunch the flow of blood, Calder\u00f3n has sought to redefine it, claiming that 90% of those killed are involved in narco-trafficking. A general urged the media to report each death not as another murder victim but \"one less criminal\". Given so few homicides are properly investigated it is unclear how the president, general or anyone can know such things.Miguel Morales has no doubt he would have been classified as a criminal. The 24-year-old, who would only speak under a pseudonym, was, after all, a thief and a junkie and haunted street corners where gangs peddled drugs. As his fixes progressed from pills to cocaine to heroin his body weight shrivelled to 50kg, a spectre. One of Ju\u00e1rez's estimated 80,000 addicts, his death \u2013 he had numerous scrapes with gangs and police \u2013 would have caused not a blip. He recounts all this in a matter-of-fact tone at a rehabilitation centre which has become his home.Then his eyes blaze. \"My story would have been buried with me.\" What angers him is not the prospect of dying so much as dying anonymous, forgotten. \"Everyone has a story.\" This is his. Morales was from a middle class home but, shy and awkward, with a clumsy body and goggle eyes, jealous of a brother's effortless success, he started smoking cannabis at 14 to get through weekends. He progressed to harder drugs, dropped out of business college, lived rough, begged, stole, got high. Somehow he found a way back and now, clean, lives in the rehab centre. He mops the floors and gives talks to new arrivals. \"It's not much of a story is it?\" he smiles. \"But I'm glad I can tell it.\"28,000+ Number murdered since Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched his crackdown on cartels in 200684,000Number of weapons confiscated$400m+Amount of suspected drugs money confiscated963Number of clashes between security forces and drug gangs (nearly one a day)50,000+Troops and federal police involved in the operation$13bnEstimated annual profit made by Mexican drug traffickers90%Proportion of cocaine consumed in the US that comes from Mexico", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico drug war: the new killing fields"},{"date": "2010-08-22T10:59:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Twenty million people, most of them bad drivers, whizzing around a smoggy city a mile above sea level: Mexico City doesn't seem like the ideal place to navigate by bike. Before I moved here a few months ago, I almost put my Bianchi into storage. But I packed it at the last minute, and thank goodness. Mexico's sprawling capital is one of the most bike-friendly cities I've been to. It beat London to the bike-hire business with the launch of its Ecobici scheme in February. And it's still ahead in two other areas, which cities in Britain could and should copy.The first is shutting off stretches of road to cars. La Reforma, the eight-lane highway that runs through the middle of the metropolis, is closed to cars every Sunday and turns into a riot of bikes, rollerskaters and joggers. Families come to whoosh round and round the majestic \u00c1ngel de Independencia, and shoppers and tourists use it to zip into the city centre, which is far quicker by bike than by metro (though that is speedy, too, and at 15p somewhat more tempting than the Tube). Nor does it seem to mess things up too much for motorists: I drive in the city as well, and Sundays are no more clogged than the rest of the week.Britain has a few similar schemes. This month and next see a series of \"Skyrides\" across the country, where roads are shut off in the same way. Last year there were five; this year there are 13, from Glasgow to Southampton. Long may they proliferate.But Mexico City shows how much further Britain could go. The La Reforma route is 24km (15 miles) long, and open every week, while a longer 32km (20-mile) route is open once a month. Last year's London Skyride was just 15km long and lasted all of one day. Boris Johnson says, admirably, that he wants his city to be the world's cycling capital. But London is being trounced by a country whose average income is just over $10,000.Mexico also has lessons for Britain in what urban planners call \"shared space\", and what everyone else calls a free-for-all. One of the distinctive features of British roads is that space is strictly allocated and ruthlessly guarded: cyclists give an earful to motorcyclists who nudge into the cycle-box at traffic lights; pedestrians vent fury at cyclists who stray on to the pavement. It's horrible.Other countries are more relaxed. In Seville, for instance, the city centre is open to pedestrians, cyclists and trams, all of which just have to keep an eye out for each other. Here in Mexico, cycling on the wider pavements, carefully, is allowed (even the police do it). And a lot of the quieter crossroads are unmarked, relying on cyclists' and drivers' caution rather than forcing people to sit at red lights when no one is around.This kind of thing must seem like blasphemy in Britain, which likes to think of itself as more liberal than its Euro neighbours, but actually rather likes its rules and regulations. The ban on cycling in some parks reminds me of the extraordinary law against so-called \"wild camping\" (known to the rest of the world simply as \"camping\"), and relies on the same dismal logic that because some people are thoughtless, no one can be trusted.Some parts of Britain are experimenting with loosening the rules: a \"shared space\" project is planned for London's museum district and in Ashford, cars, cyclists and pedestrians have equal priority. The best thing to happen to Leeds when I was growing up there was the pedestrianisation (and, from memory, bike-ification) of most of the city centre. In these cases, at least, fewer rules has meant better behaviour.I have one reservation about recommending these schemes more broadly in Britain: I'm not sure we are nice enough. I always resisted the temptation to complain about London being unfriendly \u2013 it's the same with any big, anonymous city, I told myself, as people shouted at me for being in their bit of road (women have it much worse, as this illuminating blog reveals).Well, Mexico City is nearly twice as big and faces social problems graver than anything Tower Hamlets has seen in a few decades. But its inhabitants are much, much more easygoing. Last week I saw a cyclist almost taken out by a thoughtlessly opened car door \u2013 he and the driver ended up having a joke about it. Would that happen in London or Leeds?Shared space works very well over here. The only thing that might stop it working in Britain could be Britons.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Mexico", "London", "Transport", "Cycle hire schemes", "Boris Johnson", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Cycling lessons from Mexico City | Tom Wainwright"},{"date": "2010-09-30T10:36:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Heavy rains in Mexico led to a second landslide yesterday which killed 16 people as officials admitted that exaggerated reports about an earlier slide diverted resources from other storm-hit areas.Rescue workers at the scene of the first landslide in the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec in the southern state of Oaxaca recovered the bodies of four members of a family. Eleven people were buried in mud from a nearby mountain on Tuesday after three days of rain linked to Tropical Depression Matthew.The rescue operation was scaled down when initial reports that the landslide had killed hundreds of people proved unfounded.The chief rescue official in Oaxaca, Manuel Maza, said too many rescuers were sent to the area.\"The tail-end of Matthew left a dozen damaged bridges and about 20 villages cut off. The mobilisation to [Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec] distracted attention from those areas,\" he said.The government confirmed that more people were killed yesterday in a mudslide in the neighbouring state of Chiapas.\"Unfortunately there has been a new landslide in Amatan, Chiapas. We are mobilising aid to help,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n announced on Twitter.Laura Gurza, the chief of Mexico's emergency response agency, said 16 people were killed and 13 injured. Three people were missing after another landslide nearby.\"There are fears of more landslides in Chiapas, Oaxaca and the mountainous zone in this strip of territory in the country's south-east, since the ground is softened, is saturated,\" Gurza said.Questions continue to be asked about the exaggerated estimates of the scale of the mudslide in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec. Municipal authorities informed the government about the landslide by satellite phone immediately after it happened at about 4am on Tuesday.\"We didn't know how many houses had been buried because it was dark so we estimated,\" the mayor, Antonio Mart\u00ednez, said. \"We didn't count them at first.\"A few hours later the state governor, Ulises Ruiz, estimated the dead at between 500 and 1,000. The authorities had already launched an attempt to get to the town, but their progress along the unpaved mountain road was hampered by smaller landslides and a collapsed bridge.Heavy cloud cover prevented helicopters from landing or providing a clear view from the air. Calder\u00f3n assured Mexicans everything was being done to get to the area, the US embassy offered help, and local organisations began collecting donations to help survivors.When the first contingent of state rescue workers and soldiers reached the town on Tuesday afternoon, after walking for several hours, they found considerable destruction in one small part of the town of some 9,000 inhabitants.Two houses were buried, two partly covered and 30 more in the path of the unstable mud flow.The authorities said 200 people were being evacuated from areas of the town in danger from further landslides.Mexico has been experiencing one of the most intense rainy seasons on record with large areas under water in lowland regions of Oaxaca and other southern states.Landslides are a danger in mountainous parts of the country, particularly those such as Oaxaca where there has been severe deforestation.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide kills 16 in Chiapas"},{"date": "2010-09-29T05:29:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Eleven people are missing after a mudslide hit a remote town in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, officials said this morning.Hundreds of people were believed to have been buried in the slide, which hit the town of Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec early yesterday, but Mexico's interior minister, Francisco Blake, and the governor of Oaxaca, Ulises Ruiz, both said the slide was not the catastrophe first feared.\"So far no one is confirmed dead, only 11 missing who we hope ... will be found,\" Ruiz said..Initial reports the rural mountain town 373 miles (600km) south-east of Mexico City said a hillside collapsed on hundreds of sleeping residents after several days of heavy rains in the aftermath of a hurricane and tropical storm that hit Mexico and Central America.Civil protection authorities first reported seven people killed and at least 100 missing, but Ruiz later reported casualties as four dead and 12 missing.Jose Alfredo Garcia, spokesman for Mexico's interior department, said initial reports were based on the number of homes hit by the mudslide, but at the time no federal or state officials had reached the site to check the estimates.Communications with the town were difficult after the pre-dawn slide. Soldiers and civil protection and Red Cross workers couldn't reach the area for nearly 10 hours because mud and rocks blocked roads and a bridge was damaged, while bad weather prevented helicopters from being used.Mexican president Felipe Calderon yesterday reported on his Twitter account that an army commander and 30 soldiers had reached the town by foot and that there was a lot of damage, but \"perhaps not of the magnitude initially reported\".Donato Vargas, an official in Santa Maria de Tlahuitoltepec reached by a satellite telephone, had said as many as 300 homes were believed to buried, and residents who made it out early in the morning said they had no success digging out neighbours.\"We have been using a backhoe but there is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" Vargas said, adding that the slide had dragged houses packed with sleeping families some 1,300 feet (400 meters) down the hillside along with cars, livestock and light poles.\"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen,\" Vargas said. \"We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"One person was reported killed in a mudslide in another Oaxaca community, Villa Hidalgo, and 30 people were killed Monday in a slide in Colombia. Heavy rains, including some delivered by the remnants of Hurricane Karl and then Tropical Storm Matthew, also have produced deadly floods in southern Mexico and Central America.Oaxaca Civil Protection operations coordinator Luis Marin said the state had seen three days straight of intense rain. The state government warned residents south of the city of Oaxaca of flooding from overflowing rivers and opened shelters in other parts of the state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Mexico landslide less deadly than feared"},{"date": "2010-09-28T19:28:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hundreds of people arefeared to have died after a landslide devastated a town in a remote mountainous area of the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.Torrential rain loosened a hillside and sent tonnes of earth crashing down on to parts of the town of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec early today.The mud and rock broke loose at around 4am and engulfed between 100-300 houses where families were sleeping, said the state governor, Ulises Ruiz. \"There could be 500 or 600 people [dead]. Perhaps 1,000,\" he told Televisa.Survivors were struggling to dig out neighbours, Donato Vargas, a resident, told AP by satellite phone.\"There is a lot of mud. We can't even see the homes, we can't hear shouts, we can't hear anything,\" he said.The avalanche swept houses 1,300ft downhill along with cars and animals, said Vargas. \"We were all sleeping and all I heard was a loud noise and when I left the house I saw that the hill had fallen. We were left without electricity, without telephone and we couldn't help them. There was no way to move the mud.\"Vargas said he contacted the governor on the town's satellite phone but eight hours after the slide no rescue crews had reached the area. \"There is no way to communicate. The roads are shut down. All we have is this satellite phone,\" Vargas said.Army, navy, marine and civil response teams with rescue dogs were scrambling to reach the town in treacherous weather. Two Puma helicopters were unable to land and had to return to Oaxaca airport. \"We are sending machinery, there are soldiers from the Mexican army, the navy, state police, ambulances, health personnel and rescue workers,\" said the governor. \"We hope to get there in time to rescue some of the people who have been buried.\"The first rescuers to arrive on the scene reported eight confirmed dead but the toll was expected to rise sharply once digging equipment arrived. Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, with a population of about 9,000, is only about 40 miles from the state capital of Oaxaca but largely unpaved winding mountain roads make it a three-hour drive even in normal conditions.Fausto Martinez, a rescue worker, told Telesur broadcaster that the Oaxaca civil protection force had received a satellite phone call from a resident before dawn. \"They said the mountain had collapsed and a lot of people were in their homes because of the hour. It's been difficult to get in by road so we are preparing specialist teams to get in by air.\"Survivors from the landslide were taken to temporary refuges, he said. The worst-hit area covered five to 10 hectares but water and electricity services to the entire town were disrupted, said Martinez.A picturesque colonial town, Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec has a population of about 9,000, mostly Mixe Indians. Another landslide in the nearby community of Villa Hidalgo left hundreds homeless and killed at least one person.Mexico is suffering one of its most intense rainy seasons in living memory. Flooding has forced thousands from their homes across southern Mexico in the past week. So far about 20 people have died in floods that began in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz and spread to the state of Chiapas at the weekend. In the past week separate storm systems have drenched the Caribbean, central America, Venezuela and Colombia, washing away homes, blocking roads and forcing thousands to seek refuge. About 30 people were buried yesterday by a landslide north-west of Bogota, Colombia's capital. Many were changing from one bus to another because a mountain road was blocked.The alarm was raised in Oaxaca yesterday when at least four rivers broke their banks. A bridge to Oaxaca airport fractured and another outside the city collapsed. Local authorities set up shelters to house hundreds of people whose houses were flooded in the lowland isthmus of Tehuantepec in the south of the state. Phone lines between Mexico City and the state capital appeared to be down.Tabata Anton, an official at a technical college based in Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec, said by phone from the state capital that blocked roads had forced teachers trying to get to the town on Monday to turn around. There had been no communication with the institute's approximately 60 students from the town.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Americas", "Landslides"], "title": "Hundreds feared dead in Mexico landslide"},{"date": "2010-07-02T23:05:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Texas is big. And, if you visit Dallas and Houston, awfully bland. Even Austin, now home to the super-hip South By Southwest music expo and film festival, resembles a super-sized suburb with constant traffic gridlock. To those looking for a genuine Texan rose, I would suggest San Antonio \u2013 quite possibly, my favourite American city. It surprises me that so few people \u2013 US citizens and Europeans alike \u2013 seem to be aware of its charms. But in some ways I like that, for aren't secret love affairs meant to be the most tantalising?San Antonio is superior to all other Texas cities. For starters, it has a centre, a heart. From there, San Antonio can be explored on foot. That the majority of the city's inhabitants are Hispanic lends San Antonio a soulful, Latin ambience. It also means there are countless great Mexican food outlets and the sound of Tejano \u2013 a Tex-Mex musical hybrid \u2013 echoes out of bars and clubs.Most people know one thing about San Antonio: the Alamo. Indeed, the fortified mission where Davy Crockett and allies fought a futile last stand against Mexican forces in 1836 (Texas then being part of Mexico) remains the city's centrepiece. After watching the likes of John Wayne and Billy Bob Thornton defend the Alamo, I was surprised by how small it is. The solid Spanish mission architecture recalls a time when San Antonio was the wild frontier, and its thick walls do provide respite from the southern heat.While many US cities appear to regard walking as a fairly suspicious kind of activity, San Antonio encourages strolling. Nowhere is this lovelier than the Paseo del R\u00edo (River Walk), cobble and flagstone paths that extend for 21 blocks (almost three miles) along the San Antonio river.By the time I felt the need for a drink, I'd lost count of the number of blocks I'd walked. Seeing a sign for a bar, I hiked up an iron staircase to the Esquire Tavern (155 East Commerce St), and felt as if I'd stepped on to the set of a Sam Peckinpah film. Founded in 1933, the Esquire is the only bar on the River Walk that caters for locals rather than tourists. The original 76ft-long bar and the ceiling fans survive, as does a magnificent jukebox packed with classic blues, soul, rock'n'roll and Tejano tunes. When three strolling mariachis entered, the jukebox was unplugged and they began playing. A heavily tattooed patron, disgruntled by the slow flow of tips, stood up and shouted: \"Give 'em a buck!\" From then on dollars flew thick and fast while the mariachis sang superb corridos (narrative songs that serve as a Mexican blues). The Esquire, I should also note, serves Shiner Bock \u2013 indisputably Texas's finest beer \u2013 in long-neck glasses. On a hot Texan afternoon, I was in heaven.San Antonio is a legendary music town, with the city's bars providing a training ground for many rising country, rock, blues and Tejano stars. Best known to British audiences would be the late Doug Sahm, whose rocking Tex-Mex blend on hits such as Mendocino and She's About a Mover won him an international following and helped shine the spotlight on local Tejano heroes Freddy Fender and Flaco Jim\u00e9nez. But the city's greatest musical icon remains Lydia Mendoza (1916\u20132007), the undisputed queen of Mexican\u2013American music. Mendoza grew up singing on the streets of San Antonio, made her first recordings here in 1928 and rose to superstar status (among Spanish speakers in the US and Latin America) with songs such as Amor Bonito. The ultimate tribute to Mendoza can be found at Del Bravo Records (554 West Old US Highway 90), an old-school record shop that still stocks vinyl. Its affable 79-year-old owner, Salome Guti\u00e9rrez, has extended Del Bravo to include a Tejas y su Musica (The Texas Music Museum) honouring Lydia and other local artists. Lydia's guitar is on display, and I knelt before it.On a larger, if less personal, scale is the magnificent Institute of Texan Cultures, in HemisFair Park, close to the Alamo. The Institute offers superb exhibitions and hosts the Texas Folklife Festival every June, where more than 250 participants come together to celebrate their culture and heritage via music, dance, arts and food. And what food! San Antonio prides itself on superb Mexican and barbecue restaurants.San Antonio's annual Tejano-Conjunto festival (every May) is also a must for anyone enthusiastic about Texan vernacular music. \"Tejano\" is Spanish for \"Texan\" while \"Conjunto\" means \"group\" or \"ensemble\", and the music made across this festival focuses on the accordion as the voice of cultural expression and Tejano pride. Both festivals are a bargain: daily entry is $7 for Tejano-Conjunto and $10 for Folklife. Also noteworthy is November's Day of the Dead festival, where the city's Mexican traditions reign.And outside of festival periods, San Antonio boasts a rich live music scene. The North St Mary's Street club strip is convenient to the downtown area and cover charges for most venues are rarely more than $10. Among countless bars offering loud rock, a fistful worth checking are Cool Arrows (1025 Nogalitos Street) and Salut\u00e9 International Bar (2801 N Saint Mary's), both featuring Tejano bands and DJs; Casbeers, founded in 1932, has recently shifted to 1150 South Alamo St and offers fine food and leathery singer-songwriters; Cowboys Dancehall (3030 North East Loop 410) lives up to its name, with everyone wearing Stetsons and line dancing to slick country bands. Going to local bars and clubs means experiencing local customs: frisking for weapons may accompany your entry.Unlike so many US cities, where the downtown areas are dead after dark and chain restaurants dominate, San Antonio thrives on its multicultural identity. Doug Sahm once sang \"you just can't live in Texas if you don't have a lot of soul\", and in San Antonio that is as true as ever.\u2022 The Gunter Hotel (gunterhotel.com), where blues legend Robert Johnson recorded his first 16 songs for Paramount in 1936, has doubles from around $250 per night. Flights from London to San Antonio, booked on kayak.co.uk, start at around \u00a3460 returnMore Miles Than Money: Journeys Through American Music, by Garth Cartwright, is published by Serpent's Tail (serpentstail.com, \u00a312.99)", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Bars and clubs", "City breaks", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Country"], "title": "San Antonio: down Mexico way"},{"date": "2010-09-03T14:54:28Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The events which have no name scythe through the valley like invisible reapers. They slice east to west, west to east, a homicidal pendulum. No one sees anything.The pair of human heads left in a coolbox on the corner of the plaza? A mystery. The 18 houses burnt in a single night? An enigma. The doctor and his family who disappeared? A rumour.This much residents do tell you: Ju\u00e1rez valley stretches along the Rio Bravo and used to grow cotton. It roasts by day, shivers by night. Lob a stone over the river and it lands in Texas.Beyond that, conversation tends to dry up. Of the slaughter, of the reason this has become one of the deadliest places on the planet, residents have little to say. At most they refer to \"the situation\", \"the things happening\" or, simply, \"it\".Manuel Robles, curator of the valley museum in the hamlet of San Agust\u00edn, can talk about dinosaur fossils and Apaches but not unfolding history. Pressed, he rubs rheumy eyes, gazes out the window and falls silent. Finally he says: \"If I tell you, tomorrow I won't be here. They'll kill me.\"It's as close as you get to an acknowledgment that this valley of a dozen villages and towns, once home to 20,000 people, has detached from Mexico and entered a realm beyond any map. There is no state here, no rule of law. There are killings and beheadings and burnings and no one sees anything.The official explanation is that the Sinaloa cartel is challenging the homegrown Ju\u00e1rez cartel for a venerable gun and drug trafficking route to the United States. Just as Billy the Kid coveted this trail, so do modern outlaws.It is perhaps the loneliest corner of what is termed Mexico's drug war. More than 500 people are estimated to have died here in the past four years, a per capita toll far worse than Iraq or Afghanistan. Nationwide 28,000 have died.As violence raked up and down the valley, exterminating entire families, an exodus began. By the time a church was torched and anonymous notes warned of an imminent bloodbath most were gone, leaving blackened, boarded-up ghost towns. Nature, at least, is thriving: weeds festoon carcasses of abandoned pick-up trucks.The cemetery outside Guadalupe, the biggest town, is a scorched, desolate place with fresh mounds. \"Four in the past week, all young ones,\" says Ignacio Montes, 66, the gravedigger. A cloth hangs from his baseball cap.He indicates a family plot: Omar Amaya, mayor, killed in 2006, aged 33; his father, Apolonio, also mayor, killed in 2007, aged 59; Omar's sister Aglae, aged 29, and mother, Maria, aged 57, both killed in 2008.\"They go after the relatives, you see,\" says Montes. During a burial in 2008 gunmen ambushed mourners, killing the dead man's daughter and wounding his granddaughter. \"It doesn't stop,\" says Montes. He recently found a 16-year-old boy's battered body dumped on a grave.Victor Luque, 53, is the acting mayor of Guadalupe. His predecessor was assassinated two months ago, the town's fourth murdered mayor. Urbane, courteous and elegant in a white guayabera, Luque agrees to an interview.What is going on in the valley? \"I really don't know.\" Who is doing the killing? \"I really don't know.\" Who is responsible for security? \"I really don't know.\" How many people have fled? \"I really don't know.\" The mantra almost becomes a joke. The mayor shrugs, smiles. He knows this exchange is ridiculous. He floats a metaphor. The \"situation\", he says, is \"a perfect storm\". There is a local expression: \"Hasta el viento tiene miedo\". Even the wind is afraid. In this town hall, with its black ribbons, bleached peach paintwork and near-empty offices, terror is in the heavy stillness.Momentarily dropping the charade, Luque mentions he has no bodyguard. \"What would be the point? If they decide to kill you then there would be two bodies instead of one.\" Who would \"they\" be? The mayor smiles again. \"I really don't know.\"But someone knows a lot about the valley. During the Guardian's tour there was barely another vehicle or soul in sight. Yet the next day the guide's family received an anonymous phone call detailing our entire itinerary \u2013 who we met, what we discussed, even places where we slowed but did not stop \u2013 with precision.Mexico's agony is ritually explained as a turf war between drug cartels. Group A versus Group B versus Group C. A savage conflict, but the mayhem, according to authorities, is a sign of cartels' desperation. Slowly but surely the state is prevailing thanks to brave soldiers and police. \"My government is absolutely determined to continue fighting against criminality without quarter until we put a stop to this common enemy and obtain the Mexico we want,\" President Felipe Calder\u00f3n, who declared war against cartels in 2006, said in recent newspaper advertisements.Ju\u00e1rez valley suggests otherwise. It is proof of profound failure, says Gustavo de la Rosa, the state human rights commissioner. \"It is abandoned, a land without law.\" One reason, he says, is a lack of political will. \"There are few votes there so politicians ignore it. The place has gone back to the 1880s.\"In fact the state is present in the form of the army, which has cameras and checkpoints with sandbags on the only road in and out. The soldiers' presence, however, prompts the question: why did they watch thousands of residents flee \u2013 convoys of furniture-packed trucks \u2013 and do nothing. \"What's the point of them?\" says Jos\u00e9 Sereseres, 84, a lone soul in a cowboy hat on the main street of Caseta village.If there is a pattern to the slaughter it is that Sinaloa is exterminating suspected Ju\u00e1rez cartel members and their relatives. Rocio Gallegas, an editor at Ju\u00e1rez's main newspaper, El Diario, says the security forces must have intelligence about what is happening. \"It's not possible that they don't know.\"Authorities did catch Jos\u00e9 Rudolfo Escajeda, the Ju\u00e1rez cartel's valley enforcer, but a Sinaloa commander, nicknamed Quitapuercos \u2013 pig killer \u2013 is believed to remain free. It suggests, say some, that the army is tacitly backing Sinaloa.A similar pattern emerges in Ju\u00e1rez city. On the surface things looks normal. Shops and schools are open, there is rush-hour traffic and fast-food restaurants are packed at lunchtime. The scythe, however, is busy. More than 6,000 have been murdered since 2008, a shocking total for a city of just 1.3 million. Last month was the bloodiest yet: 363 dead, according to El Diario's count.It is less immediately obvious than in the valley, but the city is ebbing away. Many offices and houses are empty and have \"for sale\" signs outside. About 10,670 businesses \u2013 40% of the total \u2013 have shut. A study by the city's university found that 116,000 houses have been abandoned and 230,000 people have left.Ju\u00e1rez is the main gateway between Mexico and the US. Railways and roads converge here, as do smugglers. \"Poor Mexico, so far from God, so close to the United States,\" the dictator Porfirio Diaz observed in the 19th century. With the US the world's biggest market for illegal drugs the quip still holds.Just as in the valley, security forces in the city are an oxymoron. Their absence breeds insecurity, their presence breeds insecurity. They prey on the population, kidnapping and extorting in cahoots with criminal gangs, according to multiple complaints filed to the human rights commission. In an opinion poll published last week 39% of people cited official corruption as the main driver of violence. Narco-trafficking \u2013 despite government claims and media echoes \u2013 was cited by a mere 14.6%.It is a disturbing finding. Here in the broiling desert heat the boundary between warring criminal groups and the state, a comforting delineation within the drug war, blurs and shimmers. Soldiers and police \u2013 and elected officials \u2013 fight with, as well as against criminal gangs. \"Our security forces are infiltrated and there are links between criminal groups and certain politicians,\" says De La Rosa, the human rights commissioner. \"The way they work is to strengthen each other and the phenomenon is getting worse. There are some politicians who flaunt their connections.\"A large man with a rumpled shirt, snowy beard and hair pulled into a ponytail, the commissioner resembles a hippy Santa Claus but is a tough, shrewd operator. He investigates human rights abuses with a small team of young assistants; one of the few state agencies credited with working as it should.For protection De La Rosa sleeps across the border in El Paso and travels to Ju\u00e1rez every day with 12 bodyguards. In between fielding phone calls on the latest atrocities and rumours he coaxes testimony from frightened families.He is an outspoken critic of a government strategy that, he says, allows crooked politicians and financiers to go free. \"There are untouchables.\"When thousands of army troops deployed in 2008 the violence briefly abated. A well-placed source from city hall, a sophisticated, cultured man, smiles at the memory. \"It was a cleaning. And it worked.\" What he means is death squads took out mid-ranking narcos, including crooked police.The campaign has never been officially admitted. \"But the cleaning stopped after a few months,\" rued the official. \"That was a mistake.\" The authorities did not anticipate how quickly criminal gangs would rebound and co-opt security forces, he said.Police have replaced the army on the streets. They are seen as ineffectual at best, predatory and murderous at worst. Business owners who spoke on condition of anonymity accused officers of treating the city as booty. \"If you don't pay, you risk disappearing, that's the game,\" said one car showroom manager.Despite shake-ups, municipal and state police are still regarded as loyal to the homegrown cartel, a tradition going back decades. Federal police, outsiders brought in for the drug war, have become linked with the Sinaloa interlopers. Last month 250 officers roughed up and arrested their own commanders, accusing them of siding with narco-traffickers. A mutiny of the honest, say optimists; a row over \"cuota\", the levy the force charges on civilians, say others.Arrest statistics fuel suspicions of favouritism. Of 81,128 drug-related arrests until the end of July some 24% were from Sinaloa, the oldest and mightiest cartel. The motive, apart from pay-offs, supposedly would be to end turf wars by promoting one cartel's hegemony. Calderon indignantly denies favouritism, but the nature of violence in Ju\u00e1rez suggests local commanders \u2013 with or without approval from Mexico City \u2013 have cut deals with Sinaloa.The Ju\u00e1rez cartel, fearing extinction, has lashed back at the black-uniformed \"federales\" who allegedly back their rivals. An urban guerrilla onslaught has killed about 40 officers since April. The campaign includes drive-by shootings, kidnappings, car bombs \u2013 and a surreal request to the FBI to investigate their Mexican counterparts.On a particularly hot morning last week a patch of asphalt on Bulevar Ampliacion Cuatro Siglos revealed a new cartel tactic: it started with a bloodied, naked foot, continued with chunks of leg, then a trunk, then arms, hands and finally, 200 metres further, a head on the bonnet of a black Nissan. The quartered remains of federal police officer Hector Mendoza Guevara, aged 25. There was a placard: \"This is what happens to those who help Chapo.\" Joaquin \"El Chapo\" Guzman is the boss of Sinaloa.Any police force would be shaken by the sight, but the grisly tableau's arrangement seemed designed to instill terror in young officers from parts of southern Mexico where superstition and belief in sorcery are common. Those at the scene were ashen. \"Get away! Fuck off!\" one screamed at onlookers.In Ju\u00e1rez good news passes for this: the federales are so busy trying to stay alive that they recently suspended their extortion rackets, according to business owners. The force spokesman declined interview requests for this article.With killings averaging about a dozen a day, and businesses fleeing, the city edges ever closer to the Hobbesian dystopia of the valley 50 miles east. Each day brings fresh horrors. Two men stabbed and left to die face-down in a dump. Six people incinerated in a van. Two cyclists gunned down on the street. A child shot on the family porch. That was just one day. Before lunch.\"It amuses me when various experts in the US or Mexican government, or in the media, try to explain what's going on,\" said Charles Bowden, a veteran chronicler of the border and author of Murder City: Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and the Global Economy's New Killing Fields. \"The thing about Ju\u00e1rez is you can't see a pattern to the violence anymore. Killings are everywhere. They cross all class lines. You can't make sense of it.\"There are an estimated 500 gangs in the city, many drawn from slums where parents work in sweatshop factories that pay $40 (\u00a326) a week. Some gangs are independent, some work for the cartels, some work for the police and some have no idea whom they work for. They just take orders over the phone from unknown bosses.Few murders are investigated let alone solved. Even when suspects are arrested and paraded before TV cameras they are, according to numerous media investigations, often freed days later for want of evidence, prison space or judicial will. \"It's like a war in which no one remembers how it started. No one controls the killing now, it's got a life of its own,\" said Bowden.Unable to staunch the flow of blood, Calder\u00f3n has sought to redefine it, claiming that 90% of those killed are involved in narco-trafficking. A general urged the media to report each death not as another murder victim but \"one less criminal\". Given so few homicides are properly investigated it is unclear how the president, general or anyone can know such things.Miguel Morales has no doubt he would have been classified as a criminal. The 24-year-old, who would only speak under a pseudonym, was, after all, a thief and a junkie and haunted street corners where gangs peddled drugs. As his fixes progressed from pills to cocaine to heroin his body weight shrivelled to 50kg, a spectre. One of Ju\u00e1rez's estimated 80,000 addicts, his death \u2013 he had numerous scrapes with gangs and police \u2013 would have caused not a blip. He recounts all this in a matter-of-fact tone at a rehabilitation centre which has become his home.Then his eyes blaze. \"My story would have been buried with me.\" What angers him is not the prospect of dying so much as dying anonymous, forgotten. \"Everyone has a story.\" This is his. Morales was from a middle class home but, shy and awkward, with a clumsy body and goggle eyes, jealous of a brother's effortless success, he started smoking cannabis at 14 to get through weekends. He progressed to harder drugs, dropped out of business college, lived rough, begged, stole, got high. Somehow he found a way back and now, clean, lives in the rehab centre. He mops the floors and gives talks to new arrivals. \"It's not much of a story is it?\" he smiles. \"But I'm glad I can tell it.\"28,000+ Number murdered since Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched his crackdown on cartels in 200684,000Number of weapons confiscated$400m+Amount of suspected drugs money confiscated963Number of clashes between security forces and drug gangs (nearly one a day)50,000+Troops and federal police involved in the operation$13bnEstimated annual profit made by Mexican drug traffickers90%Proportion of cocaine consumed in the US that comes from Mexico", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico drug war: the new killing fields"},{"date": "2010-08-23T12:30:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On 18 August Mexican security forces discovered the body of the mayor of Santiago \"handcuffed and blindfolded\" and dumped on the side of the road. Edelmiro Cavazos's death was the latest in a conflict that has claimed 28,000 lives over the past four years. But it was also a symptom of a deepening crisis.The folly of prohibition and violence to suppress the narcotics trade is as damaging and misguided a practice as it is mystifyingly popular with almost every government on the planet. And few have gone about it with so much vigour as Mexico under Felipe Calder\u00f3n.It is now nearly four years since Calder\u00f3n dispatched 4,000 troops to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n to try and restore the rule of law: the first act of the Mexican drug war. The message was clear \u2013 only a few weeks after being (dubiously) elected, the new president was putting on a show of strength for the drug smugglers and pushers. Gone were the days of quiet subversion and occasional armed intervention, in favour of all-out war. Since then his presidency has become synonymous with the military approach. Calder\u00f3n staked a lot on this venture, and his political career will be shaped by the outcome of the war.It should not be surprising, then, that the floor has finally opened to the debate on legalisation. There has been talk of legalisation across central and south America for years, mostly from former leaders, but it was only a matter of time before an incumbent would start the discussions \u2013 and it had to be Calder\u00f3n who did it. The polls are starting to show war fatigue. There should be little question that his way has failed and alternatives must be sought.Four years ago the battle was against organised crime, but now it has taken on the form of something approaching a civil war. Areas that were once relatively stable have been dragged into the conflict. The city of Monterrey, traditionally a wealthy spectator to the troubles, was the subject of an armed blockade last weekend. Panic ensued. Increased tension caused business leaders to take out advertising space in the local newspaper pleading for extra protection. Elsewhere, there have been terrorist attacks on television stations and the execution of journalists in an attempt to silence the media. One courageous blogger continues to defy them.While remaining bullish over the virtues of continuing to press the attack, to his credit Calder\u00f3n has been able to drop his own ideologies in favour of pragmatism. It is \u2013 finally \u2013 a sensible approach. But those who may think of legalisation as the cure to all of Mexico's ills should follow his lead.Imagine that Mexico legalised all drugs tomorrow. One could only speculate what would happen next, but it is unlikely to confer much immediate advantage. It may be that deaths fall to pre-conflict rates, but that is unlikely. The last few years have brought bitter conflicts between the cartels. Though violence may ease in the direction of the state, those gang rivalries would be intensified. That cannot and will not be allowed to happen. For that reason, one must be careful not to mistake legalisation with the end of military intervention, especially with major cities threatened. With the continued presence of the army would come further human rights abuses. The likely outcome would be stalemate with Mexican civilians losing the most.Neither would legalisation undermine the trade itself. Mexican legalisation would be unilateral. For the most part, Mexican cartels serve as middlemen between the producers in South America and the consumers in North America. With that in mind, it is hard to see how the Mexican government can put meaningful pressure on the traffic passing through their borders. Gang profits cannot be in any way endangered unless some manner of legalisation also happens in the United States as well. Soon California will vote on Proposition 19 to legalise cannabis. As the main cash crop of the traffickers, this would be an invaluable step. But the fate of the proposition is uncertain, and even if it passes how likely is it that other states would follow suit?So why push for legalisation at all? Because the alternative \u2013 continued aggression \u2013 has become unthinkable. The people are weary of four years of gratuitously violent stalemate that an aggressive policy has unleashed. Defence spending has risen from 0.5% of GDP in 2008 to 4% in 2010. Some of the money can begin to be directed elsewhere. Furthermore, this is a sudden flash of inspired common sense by the Mexican government that needs to be given as much support as possible. It is the only option that offers a glimpse of a better future for Mexico.Mexico may well be ahead of the curve. There is an increasing feeling that the use of force to control substances is ineffectual bordering on counterproductive. Even Sweden, the champion of a zero-tolerance approach, has experienced a growth in drug-related crimes recently.It is time that tolerance was given a go. Gore Vidal wrote about the futility of fighting banned substances with bullets in the 1970s. It is amazing how little has changed. The policing of drugs around the world is based on outdated measures and uncompromising ideologies that need to be dropped. Who knows, Mexican legalisation could prove to be a catalyst for an educated discussion of our own.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Drugs", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico sees sense in war on drugs | Joseph Charles Luksza"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-11-19T19:56:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Going, going, nearly gone. Hands stayed conspicuously down and eyebrows in control when the Mexican government tried to auction off a huge diamond ring assumed to have belonged to a leading drug trafficker. \"Buying that would be too risky,\" said a man who identified himself only as Patricio. \"You might find an armed convoy at your door sent to get it back.\"The man's ring was supposed to be the star attraction of an auction of watches and jewellery confiscated from organised crime, the proceeds of which are to be ploughed back into the government's offensive against the cartels.With a diamond over half an inch in diameter and 48 smaller gems encrusted into an 18-carat gold setting, the ring was successfully used to promote the auction, but its fame seemed to put off bidders in a hall also filled with reporters. Even if its starting price of 1.4m pesos (\u00a370,000) was, according to the experts, a steal.The opportunity to buy narco bling accounted for just a small proportion of the two-day auction of 12m items ranging from scrap metal to cuddly toys, mostly confiscated at customs posts or in lieu of unpaid taxes. But it grabbed all the attention.Mexican drug traffickers are known for gaudy displays of wealth in their mansions, and famous for gilding their favourite guns, some of which are displayed in a military museum. Their taste in personal adornments had never been put under such scrutiny or under the hammer before. And if the ring failed to get the hall going, bidding was brisk on other glittering items of illicit luxury, particularly the more anonymous ones.An 18-carat gold Audemars Piguet Swiss watch was sold to a gentleman in a tan jacket for around \u00a344,000. He secured the piece when a baby-faced young man with a bleached quiff, black suit and scarlet waistcoat bowed out of the contest. \"It's worth much more than that,\" Lorenzo Huerta commented from the sidelines. He had just placed the winning bid of around \u00a39,000 for a gold Rolex.Huerta said that while the fact that the jewels had once belonged to kingpins added a certain frisson to the occasion, for serious buyers the auction was about obtaining opulence at knockdown prices: \"There are some bargains around today.\" He was buying items to sell on to clients, and would not reveal what kind of people they were.Although gold and diamonds were the dominant theme in both men's and women's watches, bracelets, rings and the like, the auction suggested drug traffickers also have a penchant for sapphires, emeralds, rubies and religion. Religious images ranged from numerous crucifixes, gem-speckled images of the Virgin of Guadalupe and many an official and unofficial saint, inevitably including the apocalyptic figure of Saint Death. Animal representations were dominated by felines, such as the bracelet clasped by sparkling jaguars.The auction was due to continue today when lots included a fleet of luxury vehicles and three Cessna light aircraft, all probably seized in anti-cartel operations that have intensified since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared war on the traffickers four years ago and organised criminal violence ballooned.Blaming the need to protect the security of the bidders, the authorities refused to reveal the origin of any of the items, which opened the door to speculation.An obvious candidate was Sandra Avila Beltran, who was detained in 2007 for allegedly trafficking cocaine through Mexico with 169 fine jewels in her possession. \"I can't resist them,\" the middle-aged beauty dubbed the Queen of the Pacific told Mexican journalist Julio Scherer in a series of prison interviews in which she insisted her only crime was to be part of the narco-social scene. \"My husbands, my boyfriends and, when I had them, my friends, gave me a lot of jewellery.\"But only a few of pieces from her collection, that Scherer enumerated in his subsequent book on her, matched those on offer at the auction. The original owner of that diamond ring, and almost everything else that sparkled in the auction, seemed destined to remain a mystery.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico sells off narco-bling seized from traffickers"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-11-19T19:56:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Going, going, nearly gone. Hands stayed conspicuously down and eyebrows in control when the Mexican government tried to auction off a huge diamond ring assumed to have belonged to a leading drug trafficker. \"Buying that would be too risky,\" said a man who identified himself only as Patricio. \"You might find an armed convoy at your door sent to get it back.\"The man's ring was supposed to be the star attraction of an auction of watches and jewellery confiscated from organised crime, the proceeds of which are to be ploughed back into the government's offensive against the cartels.With a diamond over half an inch in diameter and 48 smaller gems encrusted into an 18-carat gold setting, the ring was successfully used to promote the auction, but its fame seemed to put off bidders in a hall also filled with reporters. Even if its starting price of 1.4m pesos (\u00a370,000) was, according to the experts, a steal.The opportunity to buy narco bling accounted for just a small proportion of the two-day auction of 12m items ranging from scrap metal to cuddly toys, mostly confiscated at customs posts or in lieu of unpaid taxes. But it grabbed all the attention.Mexican drug traffickers are known for gaudy displays of wealth in their mansions, and famous for gilding their favourite guns, some of which are displayed in a military museum. Their taste in personal adornments had never been put under such scrutiny or under the hammer before. And if the ring failed to get the hall going, bidding was brisk on other glittering items of illicit luxury, particularly the more anonymous ones.An 18-carat gold Audemars Piguet Swiss watch was sold to a gentleman in a tan jacket for around \u00a344,000. He secured the piece when a baby-faced young man with a bleached quiff, black suit and scarlet waistcoat bowed out of the contest. \"It's worth much more than that,\" Lorenzo Huerta commented from the sidelines. He had just placed the winning bid of around \u00a39,000 for a gold Rolex.Huerta said that while the fact that the jewels had once belonged to kingpins added a certain frisson to the occasion, for serious buyers the auction was about obtaining opulence at knockdown prices: \"There are some bargains around today.\" He was buying items to sell on to clients, and would not reveal what kind of people they were.Although gold and diamonds were the dominant theme in both men's and women's watches, bracelets, rings and the like, the auction suggested drug traffickers also have a penchant for sapphires, emeralds, rubies and religion. Religious images ranged from numerous crucifixes, gem-speckled images of the Virgin of Guadalupe and many an official and unofficial saint, inevitably including the apocalyptic figure of Saint Death. Animal representations were dominated by felines, such as the bracelet clasped by sparkling jaguars.The auction was due to continue today when lots included a fleet of luxury vehicles and three Cessna light aircraft, all probably seized in anti-cartel operations that have intensified since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared war on the traffickers four years ago and organised criminal violence ballooned.Blaming the need to protect the security of the bidders, the authorities refused to reveal the origin of any of the items, which opened the door to speculation.An obvious candidate was Sandra Avila Beltran, who was detained in 2007 for allegedly trafficking cocaine through Mexico with 169 fine jewels in her possession. \"I can't resist them,\" the middle-aged beauty dubbed the Queen of the Pacific told Mexican journalist Julio Scherer in a series of prison interviews in which she insisted her only crime was to be part of the narco-social scene. \"My husbands, my boyfriends and, when I had them, my friends, gave me a lot of jewellery.\"But only a few of pieces from her collection, that Scherer enumerated in his subsequent book on her, matched those on offer at the auction. The original owner of that diamond ring, and almost everything else that sparkled in the auction, seemed destined to remain a mystery.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico sells off narco-bling seized from traffickers"},{"date": "2010-11-13T00:10:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's been a year since Eastbound & Down last lurched across British screens, writer-star Danny McBride giving a career-defining turn as washed-up pitcher Kenny Powers, Olympic-standard bigot and asshole everyman.Last we saw, Powers was dumping his childhood sweetheart at a gas station as his major league baseball comeback fell through. The surprise cult comedy hit of 2009 is back, and with it, its touchstone \u2013 the worst human being in history.Season two ushers in a new Kenny: he's rocking cornrows, based in Mexico, promoting cockfights but still as feral, foul-mouthed and noxious as ever. It could be worse. He's making money, has a couple of new sidekicks and there's a whole new culture for him to defile.McBride feels the move to Mexico was necessary. \"We always imagined he would get out of North Carolina to solve his problems somewhere else\". Co-writer Jody Hill agrees: \"Kenny has always been the star of the movie in his own mind. It seemed natural because in the kind of movies he would be watching, the outlaws go to Mexico.\"The lure of a struggling local baseball team quickly proves too strong for a douchebag Messiah like Kenny and he's soon declaring himself their new star player. But when the crowd greet his pitching genius with a big \"so what?\" he looks hurt. Is the shocking truth about Kenny Powers that all that braggadocio is just a front?\"Oh yeah, he's an emotional train wreck,\" Hill laughs. \"He's worse than a middle school kid.\"Both men are clearly having a blast with the show and Hill in particular laughs a lot when discussing Kenny. It sounds like they're ragging on an absent drinking buddy \u2013 Kenny, the asshole. They clearly like the guy, so there must be some lines they won't allow him to cross?\"We never think about lines or boundaries when we write,\" says McBride, \"It's what feels natural for the character. Luckily, Kenny is a character for whom you can go way outside those boundaries and somehow still feel organic to the show.\" Really? No lines at all? \"No,\" says Hill. \"As long as it comes from Kenny, not the writers.\"Although Eastbound & Down is now considered a success, it took a while for word to get around. Season two debuted in the States in September to an audience 150% higher than the season one premiere. \"It didn't do huge numbers to begin with. As writers, Jody and myself don't really pay attention to audience numbers,\" says McBride. \"Right now, it feels that you can take chances on TV that you just can't with film. Everything in film is based on the numbers it does. If you're aiming for a goal like that, it doesn't allow you to take chances.\"Those chances have paid off, gaining it some notable celebrity fans (when both Don Johnson and Marilyn Manson endorse your show you know you're cross-demographic). I mention that Father Ted co-creator Graham Linehan is a vocal supporter. \"Oh wow, that's incredible,\" says McBride who knows his Britcom alumni. \"That's a pretty huge compliment. We're big, big fans of British television and British sitcom was making bigger marks for me, as far as what I found memorable, stuff that really stood up to repeat viewings.\"Hill talks excitedly about the classic six-show British series compared to the 24-show seasons common in America. \"Even with my favourite US shows, only half of the episodes are really good. In those big seasons you're forced to have filler episodes where you almost have to turn the comedy to some sort of formula to maintain a story with that many episodes.\"We were always interested in shows like The Office and Spaced that were made by just a couple of core people,\" he continues, \"and focused on a limited number of episodes.\"Their Anglophilia doesn't stop at TV. Having included a track from Nottingham chamber-rock stalwarts Tindersticks in season one, the new season employs the band's song Hubbard Hills. \"We're big fans of Tindersticks. I think we're the first comedy that has ever used Tindersticks as part of their score!\" Another feature they keep from the first season is Powers's memorable oratory.Moving to Mexico means that another country gets to hear his inspirational speeches, each one a trailer-park Gettysburg Address.\"He loves to give speeches and grandstand to everyone,\" McBride reflects fondly. \"Although, most of the time, those speeches are really just for him; they're nothing to do with the people he's speaking to.\" In reminding his new Mexican team-mates of the importance of pulling together he tells them: \"There's no 'I' in team but there is a 'U' in cunt\". Ageless folk wisdom from the pitcher philosopher. \"Yup,\" McBride deadpans. \"That's something a lot of people have forgotten,\" Hill cackles. \"My brother taught me that many years ago\"And yeah, Eastbound will learn ya something. It barely matters that Kenny the asshole really is an asshole \u2013 people respond and people relate. Powers endures, and as an object lesson of brute persistence in the face of indifference he has few peers. In his own sick way, he is redeemed, prevailing through sheer force of knowing no other way. \"That's what it's all about,\" McBride confirms. \"It's about redemption, it's about finding love, it's about finding his place in the world.\" Mark the lesson well, assholes. Mark and watch.", "tags": ["Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Comedy", "Drama"], "title": "Eastbound &amp; Down's Kenny Powers pitches in to motivate Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-11-19T19:56:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Going, going, nearly gone. Hands stayed conspicuously down and eyebrows in control when the Mexican government tried to auction off a huge diamond ring assumed to have belonged to a leading drug trafficker. \"Buying that would be too risky,\" said a man who identified himself only as Patricio. \"You might find an armed convoy at your door sent to get it back.\"The man's ring was supposed to be the star attraction of an auction of watches and jewellery confiscated from organised crime, the proceeds of which are to be ploughed back into the government's offensive against the cartels.With a diamond over half an inch in diameter and 48 smaller gems encrusted into an 18-carat gold setting, the ring was successfully used to promote the auction, but its fame seemed to put off bidders in a hall also filled with reporters. Even if its starting price of 1.4m pesos (\u00a370,000) was, according to the experts, a steal.The opportunity to buy narco bling accounted for just a small proportion of the two-day auction of 12m items ranging from scrap metal to cuddly toys, mostly confiscated at customs posts or in lieu of unpaid taxes. But it grabbed all the attention.Mexican drug traffickers are known for gaudy displays of wealth in their mansions, and famous for gilding their favourite guns, some of which are displayed in a military museum. Their taste in personal adornments had never been put under such scrutiny or under the hammer before. And if the ring failed to get the hall going, bidding was brisk on other glittering items of illicit luxury, particularly the more anonymous ones.An 18-carat gold Audemars Piguet Swiss watch was sold to a gentleman in a tan jacket for around \u00a344,000. He secured the piece when a baby-faced young man with a bleached quiff, black suit and scarlet waistcoat bowed out of the contest. \"It's worth much more than that,\" Lorenzo Huerta commented from the sidelines. He had just placed the winning bid of around \u00a39,000 for a gold Rolex.Huerta said that while the fact that the jewels had once belonged to kingpins added a certain frisson to the occasion, for serious buyers the auction was about obtaining opulence at knockdown prices: \"There are some bargains around today.\" He was buying items to sell on to clients, and would not reveal what kind of people they were.Although gold and diamonds were the dominant theme in both men's and women's watches, bracelets, rings and the like, the auction suggested drug traffickers also have a penchant for sapphires, emeralds, rubies and religion. Religious images ranged from numerous crucifixes, gem-speckled images of the Virgin of Guadalupe and many an official and unofficial saint, inevitably including the apocalyptic figure of Saint Death. Animal representations were dominated by felines, such as the bracelet clasped by sparkling jaguars.The auction was due to continue today when lots included a fleet of luxury vehicles and three Cessna light aircraft, all probably seized in anti-cartel operations that have intensified since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared war on the traffickers four years ago and organised criminal violence ballooned.Blaming the need to protect the security of the bidders, the authorities refused to reveal the origin of any of the items, which opened the door to speculation.An obvious candidate was Sandra Avila Beltran, who was detained in 2007 for allegedly trafficking cocaine through Mexico with 169 fine jewels in her possession. \"I can't resist them,\" the middle-aged beauty dubbed the Queen of the Pacific told Mexican journalist Julio Scherer in a series of prison interviews in which she insisted her only crime was to be part of the narco-social scene. \"My husbands, my boyfriends and, when I had them, my friends, gave me a lot of jewellery.\"But only a few of pieces from her collection, that Scherer enumerated in his subsequent book on her, matched those on offer at the auction. The original owner of that diamond ring, and almost everything else that sparkled in the auction, seemed destined to remain a mystery.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico sells off narco-bling seized from traffickers"},{"date": "2010-11-13T00:10:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's been a year since Eastbound & Down last lurched across British screens, writer-star Danny McBride giving a career-defining turn as washed-up pitcher Kenny Powers, Olympic-standard bigot and asshole everyman.Last we saw, Powers was dumping his childhood sweetheart at a gas station as his major league baseball comeback fell through. The surprise cult comedy hit of 2009 is back, and with it, its touchstone \u2013 the worst human being in history.Season two ushers in a new Kenny: he's rocking cornrows, based in Mexico, promoting cockfights but still as feral, foul-mouthed and noxious as ever. It could be worse. He's making money, has a couple of new sidekicks and there's a whole new culture for him to defile.McBride feels the move to Mexico was necessary. \"We always imagined he would get out of North Carolina to solve his problems somewhere else\". Co-writer Jody Hill agrees: \"Kenny has always been the star of the movie in his own mind. It seemed natural because in the kind of movies he would be watching, the outlaws go to Mexico.\"The lure of a struggling local baseball team quickly proves too strong for a douchebag Messiah like Kenny and he's soon declaring himself their new star player. But when the crowd greet his pitching genius with a big \"so what?\" he looks hurt. Is the shocking truth about Kenny Powers that all that braggadocio is just a front?\"Oh yeah, he's an emotional train wreck,\" Hill laughs. \"He's worse than a middle school kid.\"Both men are clearly having a blast with the show and Hill in particular laughs a lot when discussing Kenny. It sounds like they're ragging on an absent drinking buddy \u2013 Kenny, the asshole. They clearly like the guy, so there must be some lines they won't allow him to cross?\"We never think about lines or boundaries when we write,\" says McBride, \"It's what feels natural for the character. Luckily, Kenny is a character for whom you can go way outside those boundaries and somehow still feel organic to the show.\" Really? No lines at all? \"No,\" says Hill. \"As long as it comes from Kenny, not the writers.\"Although Eastbound & Down is now considered a success, it took a while for word to get around. Season two debuted in the States in September to an audience 150% higher than the season one premiere. \"It didn't do huge numbers to begin with. As writers, Jody and myself don't really pay attention to audience numbers,\" says McBride. \"Right now, it feels that you can take chances on TV that you just can't with film. Everything in film is based on the numbers it does. If you're aiming for a goal like that, it doesn't allow you to take chances.\"Those chances have paid off, gaining it some notable celebrity fans (when both Don Johnson and Marilyn Manson endorse your show you know you're cross-demographic). I mention that Father Ted co-creator Graham Linehan is a vocal supporter. \"Oh wow, that's incredible,\" says McBride who knows his Britcom alumni. \"That's a pretty huge compliment. We're big, big fans of British television and British sitcom was making bigger marks for me, as far as what I found memorable, stuff that really stood up to repeat viewings.\"Hill talks excitedly about the classic six-show British series compared to the 24-show seasons common in America. \"Even with my favourite US shows, only half of the episodes are really good. In those big seasons you're forced to have filler episodes where you almost have to turn the comedy to some sort of formula to maintain a story with that many episodes.\"We were always interested in shows like The Office and Spaced that were made by just a couple of core people,\" he continues, \"and focused on a limited number of episodes.\"Their Anglophilia doesn't stop at TV. Having included a track from Nottingham chamber-rock stalwarts Tindersticks in season one, the new season employs the band's song Hubbard Hills. \"We're big fans of Tindersticks. I think we're the first comedy that has ever used Tindersticks as part of their score!\" Another feature they keep from the first season is Powers's memorable oratory.Moving to Mexico means that another country gets to hear his inspirational speeches, each one a trailer-park Gettysburg Address.\"He loves to give speeches and grandstand to everyone,\" McBride reflects fondly. \"Although, most of the time, those speeches are really just for him; they're nothing to do with the people he's speaking to.\" In reminding his new Mexican team-mates of the importance of pulling together he tells them: \"There's no 'I' in team but there is a 'U' in cunt\". Ageless folk wisdom from the pitcher philosopher. \"Yup,\" McBride deadpans. \"That's something a lot of people have forgotten,\" Hill cackles. \"My brother taught me that many years ago\"And yeah, Eastbound will learn ya something. It barely matters that Kenny the asshole really is an asshole \u2013 people respond and people relate. Powers endures, and as an object lesson of brute persistence in the face of indifference he has few peers. In his own sick way, he is redeemed, prevailing through sheer force of knowing no other way. \"That's what it's all about,\" McBride confirms. \"It's about redemption, it's about finding love, it's about finding his place in the world.\" Mark the lesson well, assholes. Mark and watch.", "tags": ["Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Comedy", "Drama"], "title": "Eastbound &amp; Down's Kenny Powers pitches in to motivate Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-25T09:26:46Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has raised $650m (\u00a3413m) by selling four oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico, the latest in a series of asset sales following the Deepwater Horizon disaster.The oil giant announced this morning that Marubeni Oil and Gas, a Japanese company, has agreed to buy the four sites. The deal comes just seven months after BP acquired them as part of a wider $7bn deal with Devon Energy.The mature fields, called Magnolia, Merganser, Nansen and Zia, are currently producing a total of 15,000 barrels of oil a day for BP. The company explained that it is selling them because it is more interested in exploring for new prospects in the region.\"When BP acquired Devon's Gulf of Mexico assets it was clear that these four fields did not fit well with the rest of our business in the region,\" said Andy Hopwood, BP executive vice-president for strategy and integration. \"We therefore decided they would be of more value to another company than to BP.\"BP had not previously said how much it valued the fields, but a company spokesman said the agreement showed that the oil field sector was a \"sellers' market\". The proceeds of the sale will be put towards its target of raising between $25bn and $30bn to pay for the Deepwater oil spill. \"This is another brick in the wall [towards that target],\" the BP spokesman said.In recent months BP has also sold assets in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, bringing in more than $11bn, and has signalled interest in selling assets in Alaska.Today's deal is expected to be finalised early next year. BP will remain the largest producer of oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, where its current net production totals around 400,000 barrels of oil a day.BP's new chief executive, Robert Dudley, is expected to pledge to make BP the safest company in the oil industry when he speaks at the CBI's annual conference later today. Last week Dudley announced that staff bonuses will be linked to safety targets.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 October 2010. The original listed Alaska among areas where BP has recently sold some of its holdings. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "BP sells four Gulf of Mexico oil fields"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-11-19T19:56:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Going, going, nearly gone. Hands stayed conspicuously down and eyebrows in control when the Mexican government tried to auction off a huge diamond ring assumed to have belonged to a leading drug trafficker. \"Buying that would be too risky,\" said a man who identified himself only as Patricio. \"You might find an armed convoy at your door sent to get it back.\"The man's ring was supposed to be the star attraction of an auction of watches and jewellery confiscated from organised crime, the proceeds of which are to be ploughed back into the government's offensive against the cartels.With a diamond over half an inch in diameter and 48 smaller gems encrusted into an 18-carat gold setting, the ring was successfully used to promote the auction, but its fame seemed to put off bidders in a hall also filled with reporters. Even if its starting price of 1.4m pesos (\u00a370,000) was, according to the experts, a steal.The opportunity to buy narco bling accounted for just a small proportion of the two-day auction of 12m items ranging from scrap metal to cuddly toys, mostly confiscated at customs posts or in lieu of unpaid taxes. But it grabbed all the attention.Mexican drug traffickers are known for gaudy displays of wealth in their mansions, and famous for gilding their favourite guns, some of which are displayed in a military museum. Their taste in personal adornments had never been put under such scrutiny or under the hammer before. And if the ring failed to get the hall going, bidding was brisk on other glittering items of illicit luxury, particularly the more anonymous ones.An 18-carat gold Audemars Piguet Swiss watch was sold to a gentleman in a tan jacket for around \u00a344,000. He secured the piece when a baby-faced young man with a bleached quiff, black suit and scarlet waistcoat bowed out of the contest. \"It's worth much more than that,\" Lorenzo Huerta commented from the sidelines. He had just placed the winning bid of around \u00a39,000 for a gold Rolex.Huerta said that while the fact that the jewels had once belonged to kingpins added a certain frisson to the occasion, for serious buyers the auction was about obtaining opulence at knockdown prices: \"There are some bargains around today.\" He was buying items to sell on to clients, and would not reveal what kind of people they were.Although gold and diamonds were the dominant theme in both men's and women's watches, bracelets, rings and the like, the auction suggested drug traffickers also have a penchant for sapphires, emeralds, rubies and religion. Religious images ranged from numerous crucifixes, gem-speckled images of the Virgin of Guadalupe and many an official and unofficial saint, inevitably including the apocalyptic figure of Saint Death. Animal representations were dominated by felines, such as the bracelet clasped by sparkling jaguars.The auction was due to continue today when lots included a fleet of luxury vehicles and three Cessna light aircraft, all probably seized in anti-cartel operations that have intensified since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared war on the traffickers four years ago and organised criminal violence ballooned.Blaming the need to protect the security of the bidders, the authorities refused to reveal the origin of any of the items, which opened the door to speculation.An obvious candidate was Sandra Avila Beltran, who was detained in 2007 for allegedly trafficking cocaine through Mexico with 169 fine jewels in her possession. \"I can't resist them,\" the middle-aged beauty dubbed the Queen of the Pacific told Mexican journalist Julio Scherer in a series of prison interviews in which she insisted her only crime was to be part of the narco-social scene. \"My husbands, my boyfriends and, when I had them, my friends, gave me a lot of jewellery.\"But only a few of pieces from her collection, that Scherer enumerated in his subsequent book on her, matched those on offer at the auction. The original owner of that diamond ring, and almost everything else that sparkled in the auction, seemed destined to remain a mystery.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico sells off narco-bling seized from traffickers"},{"date": "2010-11-13T00:10:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's been a year since Eastbound & Down last lurched across British screens, writer-star Danny McBride giving a career-defining turn as washed-up pitcher Kenny Powers, Olympic-standard bigot and asshole everyman.Last we saw, Powers was dumping his childhood sweetheart at a gas station as his major league baseball comeback fell through. The surprise cult comedy hit of 2009 is back, and with it, its touchstone \u2013 the worst human being in history.Season two ushers in a new Kenny: he's rocking cornrows, based in Mexico, promoting cockfights but still as feral, foul-mouthed and noxious as ever. It could be worse. He's making money, has a couple of new sidekicks and there's a whole new culture for him to defile.McBride feels the move to Mexico was necessary. \"We always imagined he would get out of North Carolina to solve his problems somewhere else\". Co-writer Jody Hill agrees: \"Kenny has always been the star of the movie in his own mind. It seemed natural because in the kind of movies he would be watching, the outlaws go to Mexico.\"The lure of a struggling local baseball team quickly proves too strong for a douchebag Messiah like Kenny and he's soon declaring himself their new star player. But when the crowd greet his pitching genius with a big \"so what?\" he looks hurt. Is the shocking truth about Kenny Powers that all that braggadocio is just a front?\"Oh yeah, he's an emotional train wreck,\" Hill laughs. \"He's worse than a middle school kid.\"Both men are clearly having a blast with the show and Hill in particular laughs a lot when discussing Kenny. It sounds like they're ragging on an absent drinking buddy \u2013 Kenny, the asshole. They clearly like the guy, so there must be some lines they won't allow him to cross?\"We never think about lines or boundaries when we write,\" says McBride, \"It's what feels natural for the character. Luckily, Kenny is a character for whom you can go way outside those boundaries and somehow still feel organic to the show.\" Really? No lines at all? \"No,\" says Hill. \"As long as it comes from Kenny, not the writers.\"Although Eastbound & Down is now considered a success, it took a while for word to get around. Season two debuted in the States in September to an audience 150% higher than the season one premiere. \"It didn't do huge numbers to begin with. As writers, Jody and myself don't really pay attention to audience numbers,\" says McBride. \"Right now, it feels that you can take chances on TV that you just can't with film. Everything in film is based on the numbers it does. If you're aiming for a goal like that, it doesn't allow you to take chances.\"Those chances have paid off, gaining it some notable celebrity fans (when both Don Johnson and Marilyn Manson endorse your show you know you're cross-demographic). I mention that Father Ted co-creator Graham Linehan is a vocal supporter. \"Oh wow, that's incredible,\" says McBride who knows his Britcom alumni. \"That's a pretty huge compliment. We're big, big fans of British television and British sitcom was making bigger marks for me, as far as what I found memorable, stuff that really stood up to repeat viewings.\"Hill talks excitedly about the classic six-show British series compared to the 24-show seasons common in America. \"Even with my favourite US shows, only half of the episodes are really good. In those big seasons you're forced to have filler episodes where you almost have to turn the comedy to some sort of formula to maintain a story with that many episodes.\"We were always interested in shows like The Office and Spaced that were made by just a couple of core people,\" he continues, \"and focused on a limited number of episodes.\"Their Anglophilia doesn't stop at TV. Having included a track from Nottingham chamber-rock stalwarts Tindersticks in season one, the new season employs the band's song Hubbard Hills. \"We're big fans of Tindersticks. I think we're the first comedy that has ever used Tindersticks as part of their score!\" Another feature they keep from the first season is Powers's memorable oratory.Moving to Mexico means that another country gets to hear his inspirational speeches, each one a trailer-park Gettysburg Address.\"He loves to give speeches and grandstand to everyone,\" McBride reflects fondly. \"Although, most of the time, those speeches are really just for him; they're nothing to do with the people he's speaking to.\" In reminding his new Mexican team-mates of the importance of pulling together he tells them: \"There's no 'I' in team but there is a 'U' in cunt\". Ageless folk wisdom from the pitcher philosopher. \"Yup,\" McBride deadpans. \"That's something a lot of people have forgotten,\" Hill cackles. \"My brother taught me that many years ago\"And yeah, Eastbound will learn ya something. It barely matters that Kenny the asshole really is an asshole \u2013 people respond and people relate. Powers endures, and as an object lesson of brute persistence in the face of indifference he has few peers. In his own sick way, he is redeemed, prevailing through sheer force of knowing no other way. \"That's what it's all about,\" McBride confirms. \"It's about redemption, it's about finding love, it's about finding his place in the world.\" Mark the lesson well, assholes. Mark and watch.", "tags": ["Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Comedy", "Drama"], "title": "Eastbound &amp; Down's Kenny Powers pitches in to motivate Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-25T09:26:46Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has raised $650m (\u00a3413m) by selling four oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico, the latest in a series of asset sales following the Deepwater Horizon disaster.The oil giant announced this morning that Marubeni Oil and Gas, a Japanese company, has agreed to buy the four sites. The deal comes just seven months after BP acquired them as part of a wider $7bn deal with Devon Energy.The mature fields, called Magnolia, Merganser, Nansen and Zia, are currently producing a total of 15,000 barrels of oil a day for BP. The company explained that it is selling them because it is more interested in exploring for new prospects in the region.\"When BP acquired Devon's Gulf of Mexico assets it was clear that these four fields did not fit well with the rest of our business in the region,\" said Andy Hopwood, BP executive vice-president for strategy and integration. \"We therefore decided they would be of more value to another company than to BP.\"BP had not previously said how much it valued the fields, but a company spokesman said the agreement showed that the oil field sector was a \"sellers' market\". The proceeds of the sale will be put towards its target of raising between $25bn and $30bn to pay for the Deepwater oil spill. \"This is another brick in the wall [towards that target],\" the BP spokesman said.In recent months BP has also sold assets in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, bringing in more than $11bn, and has signalled interest in selling assets in Alaska.Today's deal is expected to be finalised early next year. BP will remain the largest producer of oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, where its current net production totals around 400,000 barrels of oil a day.BP's new chief executive, Robert Dudley, is expected to pledge to make BP the safest company in the oil industry when he speaks at the CBI's annual conference later today. Last week Dudley announced that staff bonuses will be linked to safety targets.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 October 2010. The original listed Alaska among areas where BP has recently sold some of its holdings. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "BP sells four Gulf of Mexico oil fields"},{"date": "2010-10-14T18:21:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the world revels in the successful rescue of the Chilean miners, the feelgood factor is tempered in Mexico by anger and sorrow that something similar was not tried when 65 miners were killed here in 2006.\"We've watched all the efforts and the will to return the miners to their families alive,\" relatives of the Mexicans wrote in a letter to the Chilean families this week. \"We never saw that here.\"The miners were trapped inside the Pasta de Conchos coalmine in northern Mexico after a methane explosion. They were thought to be about 150 metres below the surface, less than a quarter of the depth at which the Chilean miners survived for two months.It took rescuers over two weeks to find the survivors in Chile. In Mexico the search lasted five days before it was called off on the grounds that the air inside the mine was intolerably toxic.Rescue workers protested and the families were furious, but their campaign to at least get the bodies recovered soon faded from the news. Now the rescue of \"Los 33\" in Chile has brought attention back to \"Los 65.\"Mexico's human rights ombudsman Raul Plascencia said it was \"regrettable that Mexico did not make the same effort.\" Others went further. Raul Vera, an outspoken Roman Catholic bishop from the area of the mine, believes there was a conspiracy to curtail the rescue effort in order to cover up how bad the safety conditions were.\"In Chile the government and the companies joined together to rescue the miners alive,\" he said. \"In Mexico they joined together to bury them forever.\"On Thursday the newspaper Reforma published a photograph of the families in Chile crying with joy next to an image of the desolation among families in Pasta de Conchos.Francisco Salazar, the labour secretary who oversaw the rescue attempt, insisted everything that could be done was done. He said it was senseless to compare the rescue possibilities in the \"inert\" mine in Chile with the \"explosive\" mine in Mexico.Jo Tuckman Mexico City", "tags": ["Mexico", "Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Americas"], "title": "Chile miners rescue: Mexico rues lack of 2006 disaster rescue"},{"date": "2010-10-24T17:00:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "California's referendum on legalising cannabis has divided Mexico into those who consider it a potentially catastrophic betrayal and those who think it could signpost a way out from the horrors of the drug war.The president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, has led criticism of Proposition 19 as a dangerous experiment that would undermine US and Mexican efforts against ruthless and powerful narco-traffickers. The conservative leader and other establishment figures have accused the US of hypocrisy in pressuring Latin America to confront drug traffickers, often at grisly cost, while doing little to rein in the US consumption that drives the trade.Some fear California's example will blow across the border and boost consumption in Mexico, where drug education and rehabilitation programmes are feeble. \"It would be the worst thing. It might cut the cartels' income a bit but we'd see more addicts, and trust me we've already got enough,\" General Carlos Villa, a police chief in Torre\u00f3n, told the Guardian.Cannabis accounts for an estimated half of cartels' income but some studies suggest legalisation in California, which produces its own weed, would barely dent profits and that narcos could in any case expand other operations.However, a small but growing number of dissenting voices in Mexico, including two former presidents and reportedly four putative presidents, have endorsed legalisation as a way to hit the cartels, reduce corruption and stamp down drug-related violence which has claimed almost 30,000 lives in four years.If California votes yes, Mexico's government will come under pressure to follow suit, a former foreign minister, Jorge Casta\u00f1eda, told Nexus magazine. \"It is going to be impossible to ask Mexican society to put up with the number of lives at risk and the violence for a fight that Americans, or at least Californians, would have said they don't want to fight any more,\" he said.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "California", "World news", "Mexico", "US news"], "title": "California's cannabis vote divides Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:07:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "'Would you like to try stone soup?\" asked my guide as we drove east out of Oaxaca city along highway 190. I wasn't sure my teeth could take it, but she swung the car off the dusty road and pulled up beside an open-fronted wooden diner, where dozens of tables and benches waited in the shade.The waiter delivered a jug of iced pineapple juice with a plate of freshly baked mushroom and pumpkin flower quesadillas, then led us to a smoky corner where the chef was poking around in a fire with long wooden tongs. Several gourd bowls filled with clear broth, sliced green chillis, coriander and onions, a few plump greyish prawns and a chunk of raw red snapper were lined up on a bench. When the stones glowed crimson with the heat, he pulled them from the flames with the tongs and dropped them into the bowls. The contents began to boil immediately, fizzing and spitting ferociously. By the time we had carried them back to our table the fish was cooked to perfection in its tangy spicy broth.\"We use river stones; they can only be heated once or they explode,\" said the chef. This pre-hispanic dish, caldo de piedra (stone soup), has been made by the Chinantec people of San Felipe Usila, in the state of Oaxaca, southern Mexico, for centuries. It is this sort of ancient dish that last month led Unesco to list Mexico's traditional cuisine (the only other is French gastronomy) as \"intangible cultural heritage\".While Unesco's world heritage list recognises historic and natural wonders, the \"intangibles\" list covers traditions such as dances, songs, rituals and crafts \u2013 fragile links with the past, at risk of erosion not by weather or woodworm, but by modernisation and globalisation.To those who know Mexican food as enchiladas, fajitas and burritos, this may be surprising. But the country's culinary heritage is several millennia old, with recipes from Aztec, Mayan and other groups fused with Spanish influences, and staples of corn, beans, avocado and chilli jazzed up with chocolate, cactus and grasshoppers.One of the best regions for Mexican eating is Oaxaca, rich in indigenous culture and famous for its mole (chocolate sauce used in savoury dishes), and meat. Who could be a better guide to Mexican food than Oaxaca city's top chef, Alejandro Ruiz, whom I met the week after the Unesco announcement at the restaurant he runs in the city's luxurious Casa Oaxaca boutique hotel? As one of a new wave of contemporary chefs turning traditional cuisine on its head, he claimed not to give an ay caramba! for Unesco's seal of approval, though he does care about culinary history.\"I want to protect our ancient recipes. So many are lost when our old ladies die. But I also wanted to do something lighter, more modern.\"Alejandro has travelled all over Mexico, gathering recipes and cooking techniques using unusual ingredients such as iguana, wild mussels and goat, striving for new interpretations of old recipes and methods.El Restaurante (casaoaxacael restaurante.com), his main venture, has Oaxaca city's best views, and some of its best food. From a rooftop candlelit table, I drank a passionfruit mescaltini and watched teenagers canoodling on the polished steps of Santo Domingo cathedral. Cheese-stuffed pumpkin flowers (a local delicacy) were followed by duck tacos with frijole (bean sauce) and squishy suckling pig with white beans. Our only complaint was that it was so dark we couldn't see what we were eating, so much of the joy and presentation was lost.Alejandro's favourite new restaurant is Pitiona (pitiona.com), opened three months ago by Jos\u00e9 Manuel Ba\u00f1os Rodr\u00edguez, a young chef with a stint at Spain's famous El Bulli restaurant under his belt. It shows. The food was incredible. My friend and I both ordered the six-course tasting menu (refusing the offer of a different accompanying mezcal with every course), but were each brought a different six. From the traditional sopa de fideos (noodle soup) with tiny floating cheese marbles \u2013 thin-skinned capsules of liquid which burst on the tongue \u2013 to the chicharr\u00f3n (crisp pork skin) and prawn taco, the fish burger that looked like a scallop, the lamb with white bean spray-can mousse, all had serious wow factor.But what about real traditional food, I had asked Alejandro, where do we go for that? His eyes lit up as he described the Sunday food market in the nearby village of Tlacolula, so the next day, we went. Amid the live turkeys, dried grasshoppers, basketball-sized cheeses and fermented cacao juice sold here by 22 indigenous communities, we found the barbacoa (barbecue) section. There women touted baked lamb and goat, thrusting out samples with their bare fingers. We picked the tastiest stall, called Chabelita, and enjoyed a tortilla of soft spicy meat cooked for five hours in a hole in the ground then rolled in lime juice, onions and radishes.Further on were dozens of butcher's stalls and a line of charcoal barbecues; we bought paper-thin slices of beef shin and grilled them ourselves with spring onions and chillies.While posh meals in the city were astounding, these traditional out-of-town places were the most exciting. Linda Hanna, the guide and B&B owner who had taken us for stone soup, introduced us to other traditional dishes at Azuzena Zapoteca (tilcajete.org), in the village of San Martin Tilcajete. Chiles en nogada was a fantastic patriotic dish of Mexican colours \u2013 green chillis stuffed with meat and dried fruit, with pomegranate seeds and creamy nut sauce.Her last tip, revealed with a wink as she said goodbye, was to go to Hosteria de Alcal\u00e1 (hosteriadealcala.com), back in the city, and to mention her name when asking for the caf\u00e9 de diablo. We didn't know what to expect so were amazed when three waiters set up two tables beside us, lit grills, and set to work flamb\u00e9ing bananas, pouring several different liqueurs into a vat of coffee and, just before serving, setting a spiral of booze-soaked orange peel alight in a dramatic blaze of flames. Not exactly what Unesco had in mind, but a spectacular finale.\u2022 Doubles at Casa Oaxaca (casaoaxaca.com) cost from \u00a3138 a night. Or stay at Las Bugambilias (i-escape.com, doubles from $80 a night), or out of town at Casa Linda (folkartfantasy.com, from $65 a night). Flights from Heathrow to Oaxaca via Mexico City in April and May 2011 start at \u00a3764 with British Airways and Aero Mexico, through Netflights.com (0844 493 4944, netflights.com). Further info: whc.unesco.org ", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Mexican food and drink", "Unesco"], "title": "Tuck into traditional culture in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-11-15T01:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A suspected gas explosion at a large hotel on Mexico's Caribbean coast yesterday killed seven people and injured 12 others, authorities said last night.Five Canadian tourists and two Mexican employees of the 676-room Grand Riviera Princess hotel in Playa del Carmen were killed in the blast, said Francisco Alor, attorney general of Quintana Roo.Early investigations suggested the explosion was caused by a mix of gases from a nearby swamp, which had built up beneath one of the dozen or so buildings which make up the hotel.\"Everyone said their hotel room shook. The glass at neighbouring restaurants all cracked and blew out. The tiki hut that was in the area, that was on fire,\" said James Gaade, from St Catharines, Ontario, who was walking on the beach when he heard a loud explosion and saw smoke coming from the resort's premium platinum lounge.Two Canadians suffered severe injuries and were in critical condition last night, while 10 others, including two US citizens and eight Mexicans suffered less serious wounds and were described as stable.The resort was hosting a large number of Canadians, including at least one wedding and a company vacation. Gaade estimated that 50-70% of the guests at the resort were Canadians.Alor said the force of the explosion creating a metre-deep crater, blowing out windows and sending fragments of ceiling over a 50 metre area.\"The report suggests an accumulation of gases produced by decomposing organic material in the subsoil, and this gas produced the explosion,\" he added.\"Expert examiners and civil defence personnel will have to determine if the underground space filled with swampy water that remained in this zone when the building was constructed four years ago, could have generated this type of gases.\"Playa del Carmen civil defence director Jesus Puc said the male Canadian fatalities included a nine-year-old boy, a 51-year-old man and two other men between 25 and 30 years old. No further information was available on the rest of the victims.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Explosion kills seven at hotel in Mexico"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Friday, 29 January 2010, 20:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 05 MEXICO 000083 SIPDIS PASS TO DOD/OSD STOCKTON PASS TO DEPT NSC EO 12958 DECL: 2020/01/29 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PHUM, SNAR, KCRM, MX SUBJECT: Scenesetter for the Opening of the Defense Bilateral Working Group, Washington, D.C., February 1DERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, DClassified Secret.1. (SBU) Summary: The inauguration of the Defense Bilateral Working Group (DBWG) on February 1 comes at a key moment in our efforts to deepen our bilateral relationship and to support the Mexican military's nascent steps toward modernization. On the heels of our bilateral joint assessments in Ciudad Juarez and Tijuana, as well as the GOM's move to replace the military with the Federal Police as lead security agency in Juarez, the DBWG can help ensure that the GOM stays focused on making the kinds of institutional improvements - including greater attention to human rights and broader regional participation - that are needed to bolster its effectiveness in the immediate fight against organized crime, and to position it to become a twenty first century military in one of the leading democracies in the region. End Summary2. (SBU) The DBWG is an important component of our overall bilateral Merida strategy for 2010. We ended 2009 with an unprecedented commitment from the Mexican government to work closely with us on an ambitious effort to move beyond a singular focus on high value targets and address some of the institutional and socio-economic constraints that threaten to undermine our efforts to combat the cartels. A truly joint effort to implement a new U.S.-Mexico strategy is yielding stronger organizational structures and interagency cooperation on both sides and a deeper understanding of the threat posed by the drug trafficking organizations. In the coming year, we will help Mexico institutionalize civilian law enforcement capabilities and phase down the military's role in conducting traditional and police functions. The DBWG will also provide a vehicle for Washington to brief the GOM on the importance of human rights issues to U.S. security policy, thus reinforcing a new formal Bilateral Human Rights Dialogue with the GOM that will include SEDENA and SEMAR.Political and Economic Context-----------------------------------------3. (SBU) It is a challenging moment to address some of the institutional weaknesses that dot the Mexican political landscape and which periodically impede our larger efforts. President Calderon has entered the last three years of his six-year term facing a complicated political and economic environment. His National Action Party (PAN) emerged seriously weakened from a dramatic set-back suffered in the July congressional elections and was unable to recoup any real momentum during the last legislative session. Calderon's bold plan for ten ambitious areas for reform, announced in September, has yet to translate into politically viable initiatives. His personal popularity numbers have dropped, driven largely by massive economic contraction and a public sense that there is little strategy to create new and sustainable jobs. Overall, Calderon's approval ratings are still well above 50 percent, sustained largely by his campaign against organized crime. Increasingly, Mexicans realize that combating DTOs is a matter of citizen security, and thus support a tough stance. Yet the failure to reduce violence is also a liability.4. (SBU) Meanwhile, the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) is in the ascendency, cautiously managing its illusory unity in an effort to dominate the twelve gubernatorial contests this year and avoid missteps that could jeopardize its front-runner status in the run-up to the 2012 presidential elections. With aMEXICO 00000083 002 OF 005strategy best described as political pragmatism, PRI insiders indicate that the party is unlikely to support any major reform efforts over the next several years - no matter how necessary - that could be publicly controversial. Slow economic recovery and budgetary pressures are reducing government resources and complicating the government's ability to balance priorities and come up with a compelling and sustainable narrative that ties the fight against organized crime to the daily concerns of most Mexicans. Mexico's rapidly declining oil production, a projected six to seven percent GDP contraction in 2009, a slow recovery in 2010, and a 47 percent poverty rate all present difficult challenges for the Calderon administration in 2010. Still, we see no \"softening\" of the administration's resolve to confront the DTOs head on.Security Challenges-------------------------5. (C) Calderon has aggressively attacked Mexico's drug trafficking organizations but has struggled with an unwieldy and uncoordinated interagency and spiraling rates of violence that have made him vulnerable to criticism that his anti-crime strategy has failed. Indeed, the GOM's inability to halt the escalating numbers of narco-related homicides in places like Ciudad Juarez and elsewhere - the nationwide total topped 7,700 in 2009 - has become one of Calderon's principal political liabilities as the general public has grown more concerned about citizen security. Mexican security institutions are often locked in a zero-sum competition in which one agency's success is viewed as another's failure, information is closely guarded, and joint operations are all but unheard of. Official corruption is widespread, leading to a compartmentalized siege mentality among \"clean\" law enforcement leaders and their lieutenants. Prosecution rates for organized crime-related offenses are dismal; two percent of those detained are brought to trail. Only 2 percent of those arrested in Ciudad Juarez have even been charged with a crime.6. (S) The failure to reduce violence has focused attention on the military's perceived failures and led to a major course change in January to switch the overall command in Ciudad Juarez from the military to the federal police. The military was not trained to patrol the streets or carry out law enforcement operations. It does not have the authority to collect and introduce evidence into the judicial system. The result: arrests skyrocketed, prosecutions remained flat, and both the military and public have become increasingly frustrated. The command change in Juarez has been seen by political classes and the public as a Presidential repudiation of SEDENA. When SEDENA joins you at the DBWG, it will be an agency smarting from the very public statement of a lack of confidence in its performance record in Juarez.7. (C) Below the surface of military professionalism, there is also considerable tension between SEDENA and SEMAR. SEMAR succeeded in the take down of Arturo Beltran Leyva, as well as with other major targets. Aside from the perceived failure of its mission in Juarez, SEDENA has come to be seen slow and risk averse even where it should succeed: the mission to capture HVTs. The risk is that the more SEDENA is criticized, the more risk averse it will become. The challenge you face in the DBWG is to convince them that modernization and not withdrawal are the way forward, and that transparency and accountability are fundamental to modernization. There is no alternative in today's world of information technology.MEXICO 00000083 003 OF 0058. (C) The DBWG is just one mechanism for addressing the challenge of modernization. SEDENA's shortfalls are at times quite noticeable and serve for dramatic charges on human rights and other grounds. We have actively sought to encourage respect for the military's role in Mexican society and tread carefully with regard to the larger theme of military modernization. What SEDENA, and to a lesser extent SEMAR, need most is a comprehensive, interactive discussion that will encourage them to look holistically at culture, training and doctrine in a way that will support modernization and allow them to address a wider range of military missions. This is where the DBWG can help.9. (C) Currently, the military is the lightening rod for criticism of the Calderon Administration's security policies. We are having some success in influencing the GOM to transition the military to secondary support functions in Juarez. Still, the GOM's capacity to replicate the Juarez model is limited. They simply lack the necessary numbers of trained federal police to deploy them in such numbers in more than a few cities. There are changes in the way that the military can interact with vetted municipal police, as we have seen in Tijuana, that produce better results. But in the near term, there is no escaping that the military will play a role in public security.10. (C) Military surges that are not coordinated with local city officials and civilian law enforcement, particularly local prosecutors, have not worked. In Ciudad Juarez, a dramatic increase in troop deployments to the city early last year brought a two-month reduction in violence levels before narcotics-related violence spiked again. The DTOs are sophisticated players: they can wait out a military deployment; they have an almost unlimited human resource pool to draw from in the marginalized neighborhoods; and they can fan complaints about human rights violations to undermine any progress the military might make with hearts and minds.11. (SBU) SEDENA lacks arrest authority and is incapable of processing information and evidence for use in judicial cases. It has taken a serious beating on human rights issues from international and domestic human rights organizations, who argue with considerable basis, in fact that the military is ill-equipped for a domestic policing role. While SEDENA has moved to address human rights criticisms, its efforts are mechanistic and wrapped in a message that often transmits defensiveness about bringing a hermetically sealed military culture into the twenty-first century. The military justice system (fuero militar) is used not only for a legitimate prosecutorial function, but also to preserve the military's institutional independence. Even the Mexican Supreme Court will not claim civilian jurisdiction over crimes involving the military, regardless of whether a military mission is involved. Fortunately, the Mexican military is under increasing pressure to change on a number of fronts. A recent Inter-American Human Rights Court ruling found Article 57 of Mexico's code of military justice, which effectively allows the military to keep all violators within its own justice system, violate Mexico's constitution and mandated improvements in the way cases involving alleged human rights abuses by the military are handled. A report issued by Amnesty International in December noted that complaints to the National Commission on Human Rights against the military increased from 367 in 2007 to over 2000 from 2008-June 2009.MEXICO 00000083 004 OF 005Change on the Horizon---------------------------12. (SBU) Calderon has undertaken serious reforms since coming to office, but he also must tread carefully in dealing with the Mexican military. With our help, he has refined his anti-crime strategy and made significant progress in a number of important areas, including inaugurating a new Federal Police command and intelligence center, establishing stronger vetting mechanisms for security officials, and constructing information-sharing databases to provide crime fighting data to various federal, state, and local elements. Calderon also has recognized that the blunt-force approach of major military deployments has not curbed violence in zones like Ciudad Juarez, and has replaced SEDENA forces with Federal Police officers as the lead security agency in urban Ciudad Juarez.13. (C) These steps reflect the GOM's willingness to respond to public pressure and to focus on building strong, civilian law enforcement institutions that are necessary for sustained success against organized crime in Mexico. Indeed, Public Security Secretary Genaro Garcia Luna has sought to raise the standards of his Federal Police so it is capable of gradually replacing the military's role in public security through improved hiring, training, and vetting practices. With new authorities granted under federal police reform legislation passed last year, including a broadened wire-tapping mandate, the SSP is well-placed to significantly expand its investigative and intelligence-collection capabilities. The GOM is exploring new ways to bring local and state police up to standards to support the anti-crime fight. Federal judicial reform has been slower in coming, but the Attorney General's Office (PGR) is looking to modernize as an institution. For example, PGR created with USG assistance the Constanza Project (Justicia Para Todos), a $200 million dollar initiative designed to transform PGR's culture, in part by promoting transparency, training attorneys to build stronger cases, and digitizing files in order to incorporate a paperless system less susceptible to corruption.14. (C) USG assistance has been crucial to these efforts, and we are looking ahead to ensure that we help Mexico build its most key institutions with seamless integration of operations, investigations, intelligence, prosecutions, and convictions. Joint assessment missions -- one to Tijuana and San Diego and one to Ciudad Juarez and El Paso - were designed to further guide our bilateral efforts and address one potential weakness -- the dysfunctionally low level of collaboration between Mexican military and civilian authorities along the border. The Tijuana assessment was completed December 3-4 and Ciudad Juarez's January 14-15. Mexico also has agreed to explore a task force model for joint intelligence and operations, and Mexico's intelligence civilian intelligence service, CISEN, has been charged with overseeing such efforts. We need to develop new programs to build a greater intelligence fusion capability, and continue to support the Federal Police's own institutional development and training capacity, and swifter implementation of judicial reform. Moreover, with many of our federal programs well underway, we are broadening our efforts to include work at the state level.Military Modernization Key-----------------------------------MEXICO 00000083 005 OF 00515. (S) In this context, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify our efforts to encourage modernization of the Mexican military. General Galvan Galvan, head of SEDENA, is an impressive military man with an appreciation for the uncomfortable, non-traditional challenges facing the Mexican military forces. But he is also a political actor who has succeeded, at least in part, by protecting the military's prerogatives and symbolic role. His experience provides him with little guidance on how to manage change and modernization against a backdrop of criticism and often vitrolic accusations. Historically, suspicion of the United States has been a prime driver of a military bureaucratic culture that has kept SEDENA closed to us. We believe Galvan is committed to at least following orders when it comes to Calderon's vision of a more modern Mexican state and a closer relationship with the United States. Our ties with the military have never been closer in terms of not only equipment transfers and training, but also the kinds of intelligence exchanges that are essential to making inroads against organized crime. Incipient steps towards logistical interoperability with U.S. forces are ongoing related to Haiti relief. SEDENA, for the first time and following SEMAR's lead, has asked for SOF training. We need to capitalize on these cracks in the door. Any retreat on engagement on our side will only reinforce SEDENA's instincts to revert to a closed and unaccountable institution.16. (C) Our engagement on human rights in the DBWG must also be carefully structured. Presentations from the U.S. side on how human rights play into our conduct of military and security policy will be constructive. It will be useful to transmit to SEDENA the kinds of systemic human rights concerns that arise in Washington. But neither SEDENA nor SEMAR will engage in a dialogue on human rights in the DBWG. That will be reserved for the ad hoc meeting of the Bilateral Human Right Dialogue with Paul Stockton scheduled for Mexico City on February 12.17. (C) SEDENA and SEMAR still have a long way to go toward modernization. The DBWG can go a long way in addressing a number of key points. We have seen some general officers, in Tijuana for example, who are looking for ways to build links between units in the field and local prosecutors, but this has not been done systematically. It needs to be encouraged. Encouraging the Mexican military to participate more actively in the international arena, such as through greater security cooperation outreach to Central America and Colombia, and even with limited participation in regional humanitarian ops to possibly peacekeeping, will also be key to helping the military transition from a mentality of \"Protecting the Revolution\" to a more active, dynamic, and flexible force. SEDENA and SEMAR share the parochial, risk-averse habits that often plague their civilian counterparts in Mexican law enforcement agencies. While the Navy's capture of Beltran Leyva may up the ante and encourage innovation by competition between security services, both SEDENA and SEMAR have serious work to do on working more effectively and efficiently with their security partners. FEELEY", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Drugs trade", "Mexico"], "title": "US embassy cables: Mexico is losing drug war, says US"},{"date": "2010-11-19T19:56:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Going, going, nearly gone. Hands stayed conspicuously down and eyebrows in control when the Mexican government tried to auction off a huge diamond ring assumed to have belonged to a leading drug trafficker. \"Buying that would be too risky,\" said a man who identified himself only as Patricio. \"You might find an armed convoy at your door sent to get it back.\"The man's ring was supposed to be the star attraction of an auction of watches and jewellery confiscated from organised crime, the proceeds of which are to be ploughed back into the government's offensive against the cartels.With a diamond over half an inch in diameter and 48 smaller gems encrusted into an 18-carat gold setting, the ring was successfully used to promote the auction, but its fame seemed to put off bidders in a hall also filled with reporters. Even if its starting price of 1.4m pesos (\u00a370,000) was, according to the experts, a steal.The opportunity to buy narco bling accounted for just a small proportion of the two-day auction of 12m items ranging from scrap metal to cuddly toys, mostly confiscated at customs posts or in lieu of unpaid taxes. But it grabbed all the attention.Mexican drug traffickers are known for gaudy displays of wealth in their mansions, and famous for gilding their favourite guns, some of which are displayed in a military museum. Their taste in personal adornments had never been put under such scrutiny or under the hammer before. And if the ring failed to get the hall going, bidding was brisk on other glittering items of illicit luxury, particularly the more anonymous ones.An 18-carat gold Audemars Piguet Swiss watch was sold to a gentleman in a tan jacket for around \u00a344,000. He secured the piece when a baby-faced young man with a bleached quiff, black suit and scarlet waistcoat bowed out of the contest. \"It's worth much more than that,\" Lorenzo Huerta commented from the sidelines. He had just placed the winning bid of around \u00a39,000 for a gold Rolex.Huerta said that while the fact that the jewels had once belonged to kingpins added a certain frisson to the occasion, for serious buyers the auction was about obtaining opulence at knockdown prices: \"There are some bargains around today.\" He was buying items to sell on to clients, and would not reveal what kind of people they were.Although gold and diamonds were the dominant theme in both men's and women's watches, bracelets, rings and the like, the auction suggested drug traffickers also have a penchant for sapphires, emeralds, rubies and religion. Religious images ranged from numerous crucifixes, gem-speckled images of the Virgin of Guadalupe and many an official and unofficial saint, inevitably including the apocalyptic figure of Saint Death. Animal representations were dominated by felines, such as the bracelet clasped by sparkling jaguars.The auction was due to continue today when lots included a fleet of luxury vehicles and three Cessna light aircraft, all probably seized in anti-cartel operations that have intensified since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared war on the traffickers four years ago and organised criminal violence ballooned.Blaming the need to protect the security of the bidders, the authorities refused to reveal the origin of any of the items, which opened the door to speculation.An obvious candidate was Sandra Avila Beltran, who was detained in 2007 for allegedly trafficking cocaine through Mexico with 169 fine jewels in her possession. \"I can't resist them,\" the middle-aged beauty dubbed the Queen of the Pacific told Mexican journalist Julio Scherer in a series of prison interviews in which she insisted her only crime was to be part of the narco-social scene. \"My husbands, my boyfriends and, when I had them, my friends, gave me a lot of jewellery.\"But only a few of pieces from her collection, that Scherer enumerated in his subsequent book on her, matched those on offer at the auction. The original owner of that diamond ring, and almost everything else that sparkled in the auction, seemed destined to remain a mystery.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico sells off narco-bling seized from traffickers"},{"date": "2010-11-13T00:10:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It's been a year since Eastbound & Down last lurched across British screens, writer-star Danny McBride giving a career-defining turn as washed-up pitcher Kenny Powers, Olympic-standard bigot and asshole everyman.Last we saw, Powers was dumping his childhood sweetheart at a gas station as his major league baseball comeback fell through. The surprise cult comedy hit of 2009 is back, and with it, its touchstone \u2013 the worst human being in history.Season two ushers in a new Kenny: he's rocking cornrows, based in Mexico, promoting cockfights but still as feral, foul-mouthed and noxious as ever. It could be worse. He's making money, has a couple of new sidekicks and there's a whole new culture for him to defile.McBride feels the move to Mexico was necessary. \"We always imagined he would get out of North Carolina to solve his problems somewhere else\". Co-writer Jody Hill agrees: \"Kenny has always been the star of the movie in his own mind. It seemed natural because in the kind of movies he would be watching, the outlaws go to Mexico.\"The lure of a struggling local baseball team quickly proves too strong for a douchebag Messiah like Kenny and he's soon declaring himself their new star player. But when the crowd greet his pitching genius with a big \"so what?\" he looks hurt. Is the shocking truth about Kenny Powers that all that braggadocio is just a front?\"Oh yeah, he's an emotional train wreck,\" Hill laughs. \"He's worse than a middle school kid.\"Both men are clearly having a blast with the show and Hill in particular laughs a lot when discussing Kenny. It sounds like they're ragging on an absent drinking buddy \u2013 Kenny, the asshole. They clearly like the guy, so there must be some lines they won't allow him to cross?\"We never think about lines or boundaries when we write,\" says McBride, \"It's what feels natural for the character. Luckily, Kenny is a character for whom you can go way outside those boundaries and somehow still feel organic to the show.\" Really? No lines at all? \"No,\" says Hill. \"As long as it comes from Kenny, not the writers.\"Although Eastbound & Down is now considered a success, it took a while for word to get around. Season two debuted in the States in September to an audience 150% higher than the season one premiere. \"It didn't do huge numbers to begin with. As writers, Jody and myself don't really pay attention to audience numbers,\" says McBride. \"Right now, it feels that you can take chances on TV that you just can't with film. Everything in film is based on the numbers it does. If you're aiming for a goal like that, it doesn't allow you to take chances.\"Those chances have paid off, gaining it some notable celebrity fans (when both Don Johnson and Marilyn Manson endorse your show you know you're cross-demographic). I mention that Father Ted co-creator Graham Linehan is a vocal supporter. \"Oh wow, that's incredible,\" says McBride who knows his Britcom alumni. \"That's a pretty huge compliment. We're big, big fans of British television and British sitcom was making bigger marks for me, as far as what I found memorable, stuff that really stood up to repeat viewings.\"Hill talks excitedly about the classic six-show British series compared to the 24-show seasons common in America. \"Even with my favourite US shows, only half of the episodes are really good. In those big seasons you're forced to have filler episodes where you almost have to turn the comedy to some sort of formula to maintain a story with that many episodes.\"We were always interested in shows like The Office and Spaced that were made by just a couple of core people,\" he continues, \"and focused on a limited number of episodes.\"Their Anglophilia doesn't stop at TV. Having included a track from Nottingham chamber-rock stalwarts Tindersticks in season one, the new season employs the band's song Hubbard Hills. \"We're big fans of Tindersticks. I think we're the first comedy that has ever used Tindersticks as part of their score!\" Another feature they keep from the first season is Powers's memorable oratory.Moving to Mexico means that another country gets to hear his inspirational speeches, each one a trailer-park Gettysburg Address.\"He loves to give speeches and grandstand to everyone,\" McBride reflects fondly. \"Although, most of the time, those speeches are really just for him; they're nothing to do with the people he's speaking to.\" In reminding his new Mexican team-mates of the importance of pulling together he tells them: \"There's no 'I' in team but there is a 'U' in cunt\". Ageless folk wisdom from the pitcher philosopher. \"Yup,\" McBride deadpans. \"That's something a lot of people have forgotten,\" Hill cackles. \"My brother taught me that many years ago\"And yeah, Eastbound will learn ya something. It barely matters that Kenny the asshole really is an asshole \u2013 people respond and people relate. Powers endures, and as an object lesson of brute persistence in the face of indifference he has few peers. In his own sick way, he is redeemed, prevailing through sheer force of knowing no other way. \"That's what it's all about,\" McBride confirms. \"It's about redemption, it's about finding love, it's about finding his place in the world.\" Mark the lesson well, assholes. Mark and watch.", "tags": ["Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Comedy", "Drama"], "title": "Eastbound &amp; Down's Kenny Powers pitches in to motivate Mexico"},{"date": "2010-10-25T09:26:46Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has raised $650m (\u00a3413m) by selling four oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico, the latest in a series of asset sales following the Deepwater Horizon disaster.The oil giant announced this morning that Marubeni Oil and Gas, a Japanese company, has agreed to buy the four sites. The deal comes just seven months after BP acquired them as part of a wider $7bn deal with Devon Energy.The mature fields, called Magnolia, Merganser, Nansen and Zia, are currently producing a total of 15,000 barrels of oil a day for BP. The company explained that it is selling them because it is more interested in exploring for new prospects in the region.\"When BP acquired Devon's Gulf of Mexico assets it was clear that these four fields did not fit well with the rest of our business in the region,\" said Andy Hopwood, BP executive vice-president for strategy and integration. \"We therefore decided they would be of more value to another company than to BP.\"BP had not previously said how much it valued the fields, but a company spokesman said the agreement showed that the oil field sector was a \"sellers' market\". The proceeds of the sale will be put towards its target of raising between $25bn and $30bn to pay for the Deepwater oil spill. \"This is another brick in the wall [towards that target],\" the BP spokesman said.In recent months BP has also sold assets in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, bringing in more than $11bn, and has signalled interest in selling assets in Alaska.Today's deal is expected to be finalised early next year. BP will remain the largest producer of oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, where its current net production totals around 400,000 barrels of oil a day.BP's new chief executive, Robert Dudley, is expected to pledge to make BP the safest company in the oil industry when he speaks at the CBI's annual conference later today. Last week Dudley announced that staff bonuses will be linked to safety targets.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 October 2010. The original listed Alaska among areas where BP has recently sold some of its holdings. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "BP sells four Gulf of Mexico oil fields"},{"date": "2010-10-14T18:21:03Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the world revels in the successful rescue of the Chilean miners, the feelgood factor is tempered in Mexico by anger and sorrow that something similar was not tried when 65 miners were killed here in 2006.\"We've watched all the efforts and the will to return the miners to their families alive,\" relatives of the Mexicans wrote in a letter to the Chilean families this week. \"We never saw that here.\"The miners were trapped inside the Pasta de Conchos coalmine in northern Mexico after a methane explosion. They were thought to be about 150 metres below the surface, less than a quarter of the depth at which the Chilean miners survived for two months.It took rescuers over two weeks to find the survivors in Chile. In Mexico the search lasted five days before it was called off on the grounds that the air inside the mine was intolerably toxic.Rescue workers protested and the families were furious, but their campaign to at least get the bodies recovered soon faded from the news. Now the rescue of \"Los 33\" in Chile has brought attention back to \"Los 65.\"Mexico's human rights ombudsman Raul Plascencia said it was \"regrettable that Mexico did not make the same effort.\" Others went further. Raul Vera, an outspoken Roman Catholic bishop from the area of the mine, believes there was a conspiracy to curtail the rescue effort in order to cover up how bad the safety conditions were.\"In Chile the government and the companies joined together to rescue the miners alive,\" he said. \"In Mexico they joined together to bury them forever.\"On Thursday the newspaper Reforma published a photograph of the families in Chile crying with joy next to an image of the desolation among families in Pasta de Conchos.Francisco Salazar, the labour secretary who oversaw the rescue attempt, insisted everything that could be done was done. He said it was senseless to compare the rescue possibilities in the \"inert\" mine in Chile with the \"explosive\" mine in Mexico.Jo Tuckman Mexico City", "tags": ["Mexico", "Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Americas"], "title": "Chile miners rescue: Mexico rues lack of 2006 disaster rescue"},{"date": "2010-12-02T16:52:43Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Obama administration reversed its decision to expand offshore drilling today, saying it had learned a lesson from the BP oil disaster.The announcement from the interior secretary, Ken Salazar, bans new drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico and off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts until 2017.It would not block a highly controversial $3.5bn project by Royal Dutch Shell to open up pristine Arctic waters to drilling. However, Salazar said Shell would have to upgrade its oil spill response plan, which could delay the planned start of the drilling next summer.There could also be delays on opening up new areas of the central and western Gulf of Mexico to drilling as more stringent safety measures are put in place.In a conference call with reporters, Salazar made repeated reference to the Deepwater Horizon blowout last April 20 \u2013 barely a month after Obama opened up new areas of the Gulf and Atlantic to drilling. \"The change from March to today is essentially based on lessons we have learned from the Deepwater Horizon spill,\" he said.Salazar also said repeatedly that the decision had been guided by scientific findings in the wake of the BP oil disaster, but he offered no specifics.It was also unclear how the latest decision fits in with the Obama administration's overall energy strategy.The announcement was immediately condemned by the oil and gas industry, and welcomed by environmental organisations. However, they criticised the decision to allow Arctic drilling to go ahead.\"Until oil companies prove they can contain and clean up an oil gusher in rough, remote Arctic waters, Shell should not be allowed to drill its planned exploratory wells there this summer,\" Adam Kolton of the National Wildlife Federation said.Obama had already weathered criticism from Republicans and the oil and gas industry for imposing a temporary ban on deepwater drilling after the blow-out. The administration lifted the ban in October, claiming it had used the time to put in place more stringent safety requirements for industry and stepped up inspections from the government's regulatory agency. Republicans and local leaders in Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi said the ban had hurt the economy \u2013 a charge certain to be aired once more after today's announcement.Giving the go-ahead to more drilling was an attempt to lure Republican support for climate change legislation before Congress. The ploy angered environmentalists and political leaders in Florida, where the tourism industry relies on safe and clean beaches \u2013 even before the Deepwater Horizon went down.Obama now faces an additional challenge to the March decision from the commission he appointed to investigate the spill. Under that plan, about two-thirds of the Gulf would have been opened up to the oil and gas industry, and drilling could take place up to 125 miles off the Florida coast.Officials dealing with the environment told the commission they were not consulted in the decision to expand offshore drilling \u2013 even though Obama claimed it had been carefully considered for over a year.The commission is to hold public deliberations on Thursday on whether BP and its partners on Deepwater Horizon, including Transocean and Horizon, put cost-saving ahead of safety considerations.", "tags": ["BP oil spill", "US news", "World news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "BP", "Oil", "Environment", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Obama: No more offshore drilling in Gulf of Mexico until 2017"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-14T15:42:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government has released a database it says covers all murders presumed to have a link to the country's drug wars in which at least seven different cartels are fighting each other and federal forces deployed in a massive offensive against them launched in December 2006. The number of deaths has risen rapidly since then to total 34,612 up until the end of 2010, by far the most violent year so far with 15,273 people killed.The database is the most detailed official picture of the drug wars yet made public, showing the geographical distribution of the violence down to the municipal level. While no region has escaped, the killing is seen as particularly intense in northern and Pacific coastal states. Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from Texas, has been the most violent city since 2008 despite also have the heaviest federal presence.The figures released do not specify how many of those killed are presumed to be related to the cartels, how many belonged to the security forces, or how many were innocent civilians dragged into the horror.The data is very detailed - download the attached sheet for a breakdown by different types of murders and for each town.What can you do with it?SOURCE: PRESIDENT MEXICO OFFICE \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 DATA: google fusion table version of the dataData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022\u00a0Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Drugs trade", "US news", "Technology"], "title": "Mexico drugs war murders data mapped"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-14T15:42:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government has released a database it says covers all murders presumed to have a link to the country's drug wars in which at least seven different cartels are fighting each other and federal forces deployed in a massive offensive against them launched in December 2006. The number of deaths has risen rapidly since then to total 34,612 up until the end of 2010, by far the most violent year so far with 15,273 people killed.The database is the most detailed official picture of the drug wars yet made public, showing the geographical distribution of the violence down to the municipal level. While no region has escaped, the killing is seen as particularly intense in northern and Pacific coastal states. Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from Texas, has been the most violent city since 2008 despite also have the heaviest federal presence.The figures released do not specify how many of those killed are presumed to be related to the cartels, how many belonged to the security forces, or how many were innocent civilians dragged into the horror.The data is very detailed - download the attached sheet for a breakdown by different types of murders and for each town.What can you do with it?SOURCE: PRESIDENT MEXICO OFFICE \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 DATA: google fusion table version of the dataData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022\u00a0Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Drugs trade", "US news", "Technology"], "title": "Mexico drugs war murders data mapped"},{"date": "2011-02-18T13:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tuesday's brutal attack on two US law enforcement agents in Mexico has led to the normal sabre-rattling. Representative Michael McCaul of Texas has called it a \"game-changer\" and a \"wake-up call\" to the \"war on our nation's doorstep\". Last week, James Westphal, undersecretary of the Army, had already spoken of an \"armed insurgency\" in Mexico, and the possibility of sending \"armed and fighting\" troops across the border to prevent a \"takeover of government\". Secretary Janet Napolitano continually speaks of the \"war\" south of the border. James Clapper, national intelligence director, recently announced that Mexico has been promoted to being a top national security threat.Mexico has, indeed, reached a tipping point. But an escalation of the present military strategy will only make the situation worse. The best response to recent events is to end the war and proceed towards disarmament, instead of aggravating the conflict. Gil Kerlikowske, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has declared the end of the metaphorical \"war on drugs\" within US borders. The time has come also to bring a stop to the very real war on the drug cartels south of the border.The central problem with the military strategy is that it does not distinguish between violent and non-violent criminals, or serious and less harmful crimes. As Kerlikowske has pointed out, the Mexican cartels are not \"insurgents\" or \"terrorists\", but \"multivalent criminal organisations\", which have diversified into a wide variety of activities including kidnapping, extortion, piracy, human trafficking, money-laundering and government corruption, as well as the transportation and sale of illegal drugs.Of all of these crimes, by far the least harmful for social and economic development is the transportation of drugs. Although drug consumption is clearly damaging, simply transporting illegal substances does not, in itself, create violence, economic crisis or human suffering. And even the harm of drug consumption pales in comparison to the effects of kidnappings, beheadings and human trafficking, especially when the consumption involves marijuana, sales of which make up two thirds of the profits of the Mexican cartels.Nevertheless, due to pressure from the US government, the Mexican authorities have been forced to concentrate their scarce law enforcement resources on pursuing the least harmful crimes. This strategy has had the obvious consequence of pushing the criminals towards more dangerous and violent activities. The result: a stratospheric increase in violence, with over 35,000 assassinations in the past four years, 15,000 during 2010 alone. The problem in Mexico is, therefore, not a lack of firepower or support for the \"war on drugs\", but the very strategy of \"war\" itself.The real priority should be on punishing violent crimes, not the transportation of drugs. By turning the typical strategy on its head, Mexico would slowly start to separate the violent, dangerous criminals from those drug traffickers who are in the business principally for the money. Although this might not bring down the prices of illegal drugs on the streets of US cities, it would help end the violence, which today is paramount and may at some point spill over to the US.This proposal should not be confused with either legalisation or negotiation approaches. Increased liberalisation of marijuana consumption would reduce the urgency of controlling transportation routes, but this strategy is by no means dependent on the legalisation of drug use. And this idea in no way implies a pact with the cartels, in the style of the past authoritarian Mexican governments. On the contrary, the proposal is to increase, not reduce, the pressure on the most serious criminals.Such a change in strategy would immediately receive vigorous applause from the Mexican people. A growing number of Mexicans have come to the conclusion that peace and prosperity are more important than stopping the flow of drugs towards eager consumers in the United States. A broad new citizen movement has even emerged, rallying around the cry of: \"No more blood!\" Movement leaders agree that the drug cartels need to be controlled \u2013 but in a way that does not destroy the very fabric of society. It makes no sense to win the war, if it leaves the country in shambles.It is time for the Obama administration to listen to the Mexican people and not only to his military advisers. The roots of the problem obviously lie in the lack of regulation of the sale of assault weapons and in the high drug consumption in the US: 90% of weapons confiscated from Mexican cartels come from the US. But if it is not politically feasible to attend to these issues, the Obama administration can at least change the emphasis of its policy towards Mexico. The central objective should be the reduction of violence and the establishment of the rule of law. Without this, everything else is doomed to fail.The author of this piece, John Ackerman, has been participating in the conversation below as JohnMAckerman. This is an excerpt selected by a Cif editor:Whendovescry observes:The current violence started from a turf war that will wind down when the losers are eliminated.JohnMAckerman responds:You are absolutely correct. The problem is that if we continue along the same path the \"winners\" will not be US and Mexican government law enforcement, but a rival gang. This might lead to short term peace, but to long term consolidation of a \"narco state\" in Mexico.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Mexico", "US news", "US foreign policy", "US military", "US politics", "Obama administration"], "title": "Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs' | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-14T15:42:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government has released a database it says covers all murders presumed to have a link to the country's drug wars in which at least seven different cartels are fighting each other and federal forces deployed in a massive offensive against them launched in December 2006. The number of deaths has risen rapidly since then to total 34,612 up until the end of 2010, by far the most violent year so far with 15,273 people killed.The database is the most detailed official picture of the drug wars yet made public, showing the geographical distribution of the violence down to the municipal level. While no region has escaped, the killing is seen as particularly intense in northern and Pacific coastal states. Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from Texas, has been the most violent city since 2008 despite also have the heaviest federal presence.The figures released do not specify how many of those killed are presumed to be related to the cartels, how many belonged to the security forces, or how many were innocent civilians dragged into the horror.The data is very detailed - download the attached sheet for a breakdown by different types of murders and for each town.What can you do with it?SOURCE: PRESIDENT MEXICO OFFICE \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 DATA: google fusion table version of the dataData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022\u00a0Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Drugs trade", "US news", "Technology"], "title": "Mexico drugs war murders data mapped"},{"date": "2011-02-18T13:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tuesday's brutal attack on two US law enforcement agents in Mexico has led to the normal sabre-rattling. Representative Michael McCaul of Texas has called it a \"game-changer\" and a \"wake-up call\" to the \"war on our nation's doorstep\". Last week, James Westphal, undersecretary of the Army, had already spoken of an \"armed insurgency\" in Mexico, and the possibility of sending \"armed and fighting\" troops across the border to prevent a \"takeover of government\". Secretary Janet Napolitano continually speaks of the \"war\" south of the border. James Clapper, national intelligence director, recently announced that Mexico has been promoted to being a top national security threat.Mexico has, indeed, reached a tipping point. But an escalation of the present military strategy will only make the situation worse. The best response to recent events is to end the war and proceed towards disarmament, instead of aggravating the conflict. Gil Kerlikowske, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has declared the end of the metaphorical \"war on drugs\" within US borders. The time has come also to bring a stop to the very real war on the drug cartels south of the border.The central problem with the military strategy is that it does not distinguish between violent and non-violent criminals, or serious and less harmful crimes. As Kerlikowske has pointed out, the Mexican cartels are not \"insurgents\" or \"terrorists\", but \"multivalent criminal organisations\", which have diversified into a wide variety of activities including kidnapping, extortion, piracy, human trafficking, money-laundering and government corruption, as well as the transportation and sale of illegal drugs.Of all of these crimes, by far the least harmful for social and economic development is the transportation of drugs. Although drug consumption is clearly damaging, simply transporting illegal substances does not, in itself, create violence, economic crisis or human suffering. And even the harm of drug consumption pales in comparison to the effects of kidnappings, beheadings and human trafficking, especially when the consumption involves marijuana, sales of which make up two thirds of the profits of the Mexican cartels.Nevertheless, due to pressure from the US government, the Mexican authorities have been forced to concentrate their scarce law enforcement resources on pursuing the least harmful crimes. This strategy has had the obvious consequence of pushing the criminals towards more dangerous and violent activities. The result: a stratospheric increase in violence, with over 35,000 assassinations in the past four years, 15,000 during 2010 alone. The problem in Mexico is, therefore, not a lack of firepower or support for the \"war on drugs\", but the very strategy of \"war\" itself.The real priority should be on punishing violent crimes, not the transportation of drugs. By turning the typical strategy on its head, Mexico would slowly start to separate the violent, dangerous criminals from those drug traffickers who are in the business principally for the money. Although this might not bring down the prices of illegal drugs on the streets of US cities, it would help end the violence, which today is paramount and may at some point spill over to the US.This proposal should not be confused with either legalisation or negotiation approaches. Increased liberalisation of marijuana consumption would reduce the urgency of controlling transportation routes, but this strategy is by no means dependent on the legalisation of drug use. And this idea in no way implies a pact with the cartels, in the style of the past authoritarian Mexican governments. On the contrary, the proposal is to increase, not reduce, the pressure on the most serious criminals.Such a change in strategy would immediately receive vigorous applause from the Mexican people. A growing number of Mexicans have come to the conclusion that peace and prosperity are more important than stopping the flow of drugs towards eager consumers in the United States. A broad new citizen movement has even emerged, rallying around the cry of: \"No more blood!\" Movement leaders agree that the drug cartels need to be controlled \u2013 but in a way that does not destroy the very fabric of society. It makes no sense to win the war, if it leaves the country in shambles.It is time for the Obama administration to listen to the Mexican people and not only to his military advisers. The roots of the problem obviously lie in the lack of regulation of the sale of assault weapons and in the high drug consumption in the US: 90% of weapons confiscated from Mexican cartels come from the US. But if it is not politically feasible to attend to these issues, the Obama administration can at least change the emphasis of its policy towards Mexico. The central objective should be the reduction of violence and the establishment of the rule of law. Without this, everything else is doomed to fail.The author of this piece, John Ackerman, has been participating in the conversation below as JohnMAckerman. This is an excerpt selected by a Cif editor:Whendovescry observes:The current violence started from a turf war that will wind down when the losers are eliminated.JohnMAckerman responds:You are absolutely correct. The problem is that if we continue along the same path the \"winners\" will not be US and Mexican government law enforcement, but a rival gang. This might lead to short term peace, but to long term consolidation of a \"narco state\" in Mexico.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Mexico", "US news", "US foreign policy", "US military", "US politics", "Obama administration"], "title": "Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs' | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2011-02-17T18:32:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican ambassador in Paris has walked out of a meeting at the French senate amid an ongoing diplomatic row sparked by Nicolas Sarkozy over a French woman jailed in Mexico on kidnapping charges.Carlos de Icaza \"sadly found himself obliged to leave\" the event after France's foreign minister mentioned the case of Florence Cassez, the Mexican embassy said.\"Mexico cannot tolerate that judicial affairs be repeatedly dragged into [other, separate matters],\" Icaza said.France's president has been accused of acting like a banana republic dictator in trying to pressure Mexico to release Cassez.Sarkozy triggered a diplomatic row by casting Cassez, who recently lost her final appeal against a 60-year jail sentence, as a victim of Mexican injustice and demanding she be moved to French custody on humanitarian grounds.\"We will not abandon her,\" he said, after welcoming the 36-year-old's parents to the Elys\u00e9e Palace. He announced that a series of more than 350 events celebrating Mexican culture in France would be dedicated to Cassez, something she had suggested herself.Mexico's foreign ministry said it would boycott the year-long festival. \"It is really surprising that a head of state would make a foreign policy decision that affects ties between two nations and governments in consultation with a person condemned by Mexican justice for a particularly serious crime,\" said the ministry.Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican novelist and a former ambassador to France, accused Sarkozy of behaving like a \"dictator of a banana republic\" in mixing cultural relations with political, judicial and diplomatic ones.Cassez was convicted of being a member of Los Zodiaco, a kidnapping gang headed by her former boyfriend Israel Vallarta. He has confessed, but she has always insisted she is innocent and that she had no idea Vallarta was a kidnapper.Born in Lille, north France, Cassez was reportedly made redundant as manager of a local fashion and homeware store in 2003 after which she travelled to Mexico where her brother had set up a company selling medical equipment. She met Vallarta and moved in with him at his ranch on the rural outskirts of Mexico City.The ranch was at the centre of a dawn police raid on 9 December 2005. Police rescued a woman, her 11-year-old son and a young man being held at the ranch. Vallarta and Cassez were shown live on Mexican TV being arrested.A few weeks later it emerged that the couple were detained the day before, held incommunicado and then taken to the ranch to be arrested again for the cameras.The authorities insisted this had no bearing on the case against Cassez, which was based on the testimony of the rescued victims who identified her as an active participant in the gang. Although they had been blindfolded, they said they recognised her foreign accent and got occasional glimpses of her white feminine hands and red hair.Cristina R\u00edos and her son were held for 52 days while the gang pressured her husband to pay a 15m peso ransom\u00a0(\u00a3750,000).\"Now I hear Florence demanding justice and shouting her innocence and I hear the voice of the woman who, twisted with jealousy, screamed at her boyfriend when she found him raping me again, and then took her anger out on me,\" R\u00edos wrote in an open letter to the press. \"The same voice my son recognises as belonging to the woman who drew his blood to send to my husband.\"Cassez's lawyers claim the victims only identified her after the scandal over the staged arrest broke and that they were pressured into doing so. Her lawyers plan to take the case to international human rights courts.The offence taken by many Mexicans over Sarkozy's vociferous lobbying is palpable, despite the general recognition that miscarriages of justice are common in Mexico.\"It is the obligation of the Mexican state to defend our institutions because that is the defence of our sovereignty,\" Mar\u00eda Elena Morera, an anti-crime campaigner, wrote in national daily El Universal.The case has stirred some very old resentments, filling Twitter feeds with references to the pastry war, a brief invasion by the French fleet in 1838 nominally triggered by the ransacking of a French bakery in Mexico City.Sarkozy has also come under fire in France despite the widespread sympathy for Cassez.\"He is behaving like an elephant in a porcelain shop ... in just 24 hours he's upset a whole country,\" said Jean-Marcel Bouguereau in an editorial in La R\u00e9publique des Pyr\u00e9n\u00e9es.Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou, the centre candidate during the last presidential elections said the polemic was not helping Cassez. \"All these declarations are, I believe, dangerous for Florence Cassez because today all Mexicans feel insulted,\" he told French radio.\"This brutal diplomacy with excessive declarations is a risk and a danger for her.\"The international row comes at a time when French diplomacy is feeling bruised over its failure to get a grip on events in Tunisia and elsewhere in north Africa.Questions have also been raised over why the French president has adopted Cassez as a cause c\u00e9l\u00e8bre as opposed to any of the other estimated 2,500 French prisoners in jail abroad, including at least one facing imminent execution.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Mexico", "World news", "France", "Europe", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Nicolas Sarkozy triggers row with Mexico over French kidnapper"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-14T15:42:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government has released a database it says covers all murders presumed to have a link to the country's drug wars in which at least seven different cartels are fighting each other and federal forces deployed in a massive offensive against them launched in December 2006. The number of deaths has risen rapidly since then to total 34,612 up until the end of 2010, by far the most violent year so far with 15,273 people killed.The database is the most detailed official picture of the drug wars yet made public, showing the geographical distribution of the violence down to the municipal level. While no region has escaped, the killing is seen as particularly intense in northern and Pacific coastal states. Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from Texas, has been the most violent city since 2008 despite also have the heaviest federal presence.The figures released do not specify how many of those killed are presumed to be related to the cartels, how many belonged to the security forces, or how many were innocent civilians dragged into the horror.The data is very detailed - download the attached sheet for a breakdown by different types of murders and for each town.What can you do with it?SOURCE: PRESIDENT MEXICO OFFICE \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 DATA: google fusion table version of the dataData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022\u00a0Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Drugs trade", "US news", "Technology"], "title": "Mexico drugs war murders data mapped"},{"date": "2011-02-18T13:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tuesday's brutal attack on two US law enforcement agents in Mexico has led to the normal sabre-rattling. Representative Michael McCaul of Texas has called it a \"game-changer\" and a \"wake-up call\" to the \"war on our nation's doorstep\". Last week, James Westphal, undersecretary of the Army, had already spoken of an \"armed insurgency\" in Mexico, and the possibility of sending \"armed and fighting\" troops across the border to prevent a \"takeover of government\". Secretary Janet Napolitano continually speaks of the \"war\" south of the border. James Clapper, national intelligence director, recently announced that Mexico has been promoted to being a top national security threat.Mexico has, indeed, reached a tipping point. But an escalation of the present military strategy will only make the situation worse. The best response to recent events is to end the war and proceed towards disarmament, instead of aggravating the conflict. Gil Kerlikowske, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has declared the end of the metaphorical \"war on drugs\" within US borders. The time has come also to bring a stop to the very real war on the drug cartels south of the border.The central problem with the military strategy is that it does not distinguish between violent and non-violent criminals, or serious and less harmful crimes. As Kerlikowske has pointed out, the Mexican cartels are not \"insurgents\" or \"terrorists\", but \"multivalent criminal organisations\", which have diversified into a wide variety of activities including kidnapping, extortion, piracy, human trafficking, money-laundering and government corruption, as well as the transportation and sale of illegal drugs.Of all of these crimes, by far the least harmful for social and economic development is the transportation of drugs. Although drug consumption is clearly damaging, simply transporting illegal substances does not, in itself, create violence, economic crisis or human suffering. And even the harm of drug consumption pales in comparison to the effects of kidnappings, beheadings and human trafficking, especially when the consumption involves marijuana, sales of which make up two thirds of the profits of the Mexican cartels.Nevertheless, due to pressure from the US government, the Mexican authorities have been forced to concentrate their scarce law enforcement resources on pursuing the least harmful crimes. This strategy has had the obvious consequence of pushing the criminals towards more dangerous and violent activities. The result: a stratospheric increase in violence, with over 35,000 assassinations in the past four years, 15,000 during 2010 alone. The problem in Mexico is, therefore, not a lack of firepower or support for the \"war on drugs\", but the very strategy of \"war\" itself.The real priority should be on punishing violent crimes, not the transportation of drugs. By turning the typical strategy on its head, Mexico would slowly start to separate the violent, dangerous criminals from those drug traffickers who are in the business principally for the money. Although this might not bring down the prices of illegal drugs on the streets of US cities, it would help end the violence, which today is paramount and may at some point spill over to the US.This proposal should not be confused with either legalisation or negotiation approaches. Increased liberalisation of marijuana consumption would reduce the urgency of controlling transportation routes, but this strategy is by no means dependent on the legalisation of drug use. And this idea in no way implies a pact with the cartels, in the style of the past authoritarian Mexican governments. On the contrary, the proposal is to increase, not reduce, the pressure on the most serious criminals.Such a change in strategy would immediately receive vigorous applause from the Mexican people. A growing number of Mexicans have come to the conclusion that peace and prosperity are more important than stopping the flow of drugs towards eager consumers in the United States. A broad new citizen movement has even emerged, rallying around the cry of: \"No more blood!\" Movement leaders agree that the drug cartels need to be controlled \u2013 but in a way that does not destroy the very fabric of society. It makes no sense to win the war, if it leaves the country in shambles.It is time for the Obama administration to listen to the Mexican people and not only to his military advisers. The roots of the problem obviously lie in the lack of regulation of the sale of assault weapons and in the high drug consumption in the US: 90% of weapons confiscated from Mexican cartels come from the US. But if it is not politically feasible to attend to these issues, the Obama administration can at least change the emphasis of its policy towards Mexico. The central objective should be the reduction of violence and the establishment of the rule of law. Without this, everything else is doomed to fail.The author of this piece, John Ackerman, has been participating in the conversation below as JohnMAckerman. This is an excerpt selected by a Cif editor:Whendovescry observes:The current violence started from a turf war that will wind down when the losers are eliminated.JohnMAckerman responds:You are absolutely correct. The problem is that if we continue along the same path the \"winners\" will not be US and Mexican government law enforcement, but a rival gang. This might lead to short term peace, but to long term consolidation of a \"narco state\" in Mexico.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Mexico", "US news", "US foreign policy", "US military", "US politics", "Obama administration"], "title": "Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs' | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2011-02-17T18:32:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican ambassador in Paris has walked out of a meeting at the French senate amid an ongoing diplomatic row sparked by Nicolas Sarkozy over a French woman jailed in Mexico on kidnapping charges.Carlos de Icaza \"sadly found himself obliged to leave\" the event after France's foreign minister mentioned the case of Florence Cassez, the Mexican embassy said.\"Mexico cannot tolerate that judicial affairs be repeatedly dragged into [other, separate matters],\" Icaza said.France's president has been accused of acting like a banana republic dictator in trying to pressure Mexico to release Cassez.Sarkozy triggered a diplomatic row by casting Cassez, who recently lost her final appeal against a 60-year jail sentence, as a victim of Mexican injustice and demanding she be moved to French custody on humanitarian grounds.\"We will not abandon her,\" he said, after welcoming the 36-year-old's parents to the Elys\u00e9e Palace. He announced that a series of more than 350 events celebrating Mexican culture in France would be dedicated to Cassez, something she had suggested herself.Mexico's foreign ministry said it would boycott the year-long festival. \"It is really surprising that a head of state would make a foreign policy decision that affects ties between two nations and governments in consultation with a person condemned by Mexican justice for a particularly serious crime,\" said the ministry.Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican novelist and a former ambassador to France, accused Sarkozy of behaving like a \"dictator of a banana republic\" in mixing cultural relations with political, judicial and diplomatic ones.Cassez was convicted of being a member of Los Zodiaco, a kidnapping gang headed by her former boyfriend Israel Vallarta. He has confessed, but she has always insisted she is innocent and that she had no idea Vallarta was a kidnapper.Born in Lille, north France, Cassez was reportedly made redundant as manager of a local fashion and homeware store in 2003 after which she travelled to Mexico where her brother had set up a company selling medical equipment. She met Vallarta and moved in with him at his ranch on the rural outskirts of Mexico City.The ranch was at the centre of a dawn police raid on 9 December 2005. Police rescued a woman, her 11-year-old son and a young man being held at the ranch. Vallarta and Cassez were shown live on Mexican TV being arrested.A few weeks later it emerged that the couple were detained the day before, held incommunicado and then taken to the ranch to be arrested again for the cameras.The authorities insisted this had no bearing on the case against Cassez, which was based on the testimony of the rescued victims who identified her as an active participant in the gang. Although they had been blindfolded, they said they recognised her foreign accent and got occasional glimpses of her white feminine hands and red hair.Cristina R\u00edos and her son were held for 52 days while the gang pressured her husband to pay a 15m peso ransom\u00a0(\u00a3750,000).\"Now I hear Florence demanding justice and shouting her innocence and I hear the voice of the woman who, twisted with jealousy, screamed at her boyfriend when she found him raping me again, and then took her anger out on me,\" R\u00edos wrote in an open letter to the press. \"The same voice my son recognises as belonging to the woman who drew his blood to send to my husband.\"Cassez's lawyers claim the victims only identified her after the scandal over the staged arrest broke and that they were pressured into doing so. Her lawyers plan to take the case to international human rights courts.The offence taken by many Mexicans over Sarkozy's vociferous lobbying is palpable, despite the general recognition that miscarriages of justice are common in Mexico.\"It is the obligation of the Mexican state to defend our institutions because that is the defence of our sovereignty,\" Mar\u00eda Elena Morera, an anti-crime campaigner, wrote in national daily El Universal.The case has stirred some very old resentments, filling Twitter feeds with references to the pastry war, a brief invasion by the French fleet in 1838 nominally triggered by the ransacking of a French bakery in Mexico City.Sarkozy has also come under fire in France despite the widespread sympathy for Cassez.\"He is behaving like an elephant in a porcelain shop ... in just 24 hours he's upset a whole country,\" said Jean-Marcel Bouguereau in an editorial in La R\u00e9publique des Pyr\u00e9n\u00e9es.Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou, the centre candidate during the last presidential elections said the polemic was not helping Cassez. \"All these declarations are, I believe, dangerous for Florence Cassez because today all Mexicans feel insulted,\" he told French radio.\"This brutal diplomacy with excessive declarations is a risk and a danger for her.\"The international row comes at a time when French diplomacy is feeling bruised over its failure to get a grip on events in Tunisia and elsewhere in north Africa.Questions have also been raised over why the French president has adopted Cassez as a cause c\u00e9l\u00e8bre as opposed to any of the other estimated 2,500 French prisoners in jail abroad, including at least one facing imminent execution.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Mexico", "World news", "France", "Europe", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Nicolas Sarkozy triggers row with Mexico over French kidnapper"},{"date": "2011-01-13T01:08:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A total of 34,612 people have died in drug-related killings in Mexico in the four years since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared an offensive against cartels shortly after taking office, officials said tonight.Killings reached their highest level in 2010, when there were 15,273 deaths, up from 9,616 the previous year.At a meeting with anti-crime groups at which the government presented a data system to track drug-related crimes, Calder\u00f3n said 2010 had been \"a year of extreme violence\".The office of federal security spokesman, Alejandro Poire, said the four-year figure included 30,913 execution-style killings, 3,153 deaths in shootouts between gangs, and 546 deaths involving attacks on authorities.Calder\u00f3n said many of the killings in 2010 were generated by the turf war between the Zetas drug gang and their former allies in the Gulf cartel.About half the killings took place in three northern states: Chihuahua, Sinaloa and Tamaulipas.Poire said drug-related killings peaked in the third quarter of 2010 and declined by almost 11% in the fourth quarter.Calderon said the decline towards the end of the year was important but refused to rule out another rise.He said Mexico's 31 state governments must do more to deal with corruption in local police forces and to fight organised crime. The president said the federal government was doing its part, pointing to the recruitment of army troops to serve as state police officers in northern Nuevo Le\u00f3n state, where killings have spiked this year.Calder\u00f3n's interior secretary, Francisco Blake Mora, presented a prototype of a national identity card, Mexico's first to be distributed to youths under 18 in some states. Most Mexicans currently use their voter ID cards as identification, but the new cards will have better security measures, including digital fingerprints and iris images, to prevent criminals from using false IDs.In a separate development, the defence department said today that soldiers had caught Rigoberto Andrade Renter\u00eda, an alleged operations leader for the La Familia cartel, in the northern border city of Tijuana at the weekend. He was found with almost 60lb (27kg) of methamphetamine, it said.The government had offered a reward of 5 million pesos (\u00a3263,000) for information leading to his arrest. La Familia cartel is based in the western state of Michoac\u00e1n, but apparently has ties with traffickers in northern border states.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Mexico drug wars have killed 35,000 people in four years"},{"date": "2011-01-06T09:32:42Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "British artist and sculptor, Jason de Caires Taylor, has created a huge underwater sculpture, \"The Silent Evolution\", that is being installed in the National Marine Park of Punta Canc\u00fan, Isla de Mujeres and Punta Nizuc. This sculpture weighs over 120 tons and is comprised of 400 individual statues cast from local Mexican people, representing a cross section of society. The goals of this sculpture are twofold: first, this sculpture is easily accessible to snorkelers and divers so it will ease pressures on the nearby natural reefs that are visited by 750,000 tourists every year. Second, this installation will provide the basis for a coral reef-like ecosystem that will attract a variety of aquatic creatures to the Canc\u00fan and Isla Mujeres National Marine Park. It is made from a special cement that is 10 times harder than the normal kind and it has a neutral PH (favourable to corals), and the statues are anchored to a barren rocky seabed 10 meters below the water's surface. Below the jump is a short video trailer that captures the installation of the first three pieces of \"The Silent Evolution.\" These placements mark the opening of the new Canc\u00fan and Isla de Mujeres underwater Museum, which will be completed this year.   Here's an informative interview with the sculptor, Mr Taylor, about his earlier work: How does Mr Taylor make these sculptures and place them into their final position? This time-lapse video captures the process:  Coral reefs are constructed of calcium carbonate secreted by the bodies of countless numbers of tiny marine animals. Often known as the \"rainforests of the sea\", coral reefs form some of the most diverse ecosystems on earth. They are surrounded by nutrient-poor ocean waters, yet they provide food and shelter for roughly 25 percent of all marine animal species, including fish, molluscs, worms, crustaceans, echinoderms, sponges, tunicates and other cnidarians. The coral reefs that most people are familiar with are found in shallow tropical waters, but they can be found in cold or deep water as well. Even though coral reefs occupy less than one tenth of one percent of the world's ocean surface (roughly the same area as Norway), they are one of the most endangered marine ecosystems in the world. Currently, 10 percent of the world's coral reefs are already dead and another 60 percent are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities, including ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures due to global warming, as well as agricultural and urban runoff, pollution, overfishing and a variety of other threats. Jason de Caires Taylor has a BA Honours in Sculpture and Ceramics from the London Institute of Arts, and he is keenly interested in the dynamic relationship between art and the environment. He is an avid SCUBA diver and has lived throughout Europe and Asia. Mr Taylor created the world's first underwater sculpture park in Grenada, West Indies, and is currently the founder and Artistic Director of the Museo Subacu\u00e1tico del Arte (MUSA) in Canc\u00fan, Mexico.All video courtesy of Jason de Caires Taylor. Mr Taylor has a website, underwater sculpture, filled with more information, photographs and video that you will enjoy.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Silent Evolution in Canc\u00fan, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-03-29T12:28:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Two Mexican journalists - Jos\u00e9 Luis Cerda Mel\u00e9ndez, 33, a programme host on the national TV channel Televisa, and Luis Emanuel Ru\u00edz Carrillo, 20, a reporter for the daily paper La Prensa - have been murdered in the northern state of Nuevo Le\u00f3n.They were abducted with a cousin of Ru\u00edz, Juan Roberto G\u00f3mez. The bodies of Ru\u00edz and G\u00f3mez were found the next day beside a freeway. Cerda's body was found on a Monterey street with the hands tied and a gunshot wound to the head. The triple murder was carried out by members of one of the drugs cartels that rule the region in Mexico. Televisa has been the target of several armed attacks.In a separate incident in the state of Veracruz, reporter Noel Lopez Olguin has been missing since 8 March.L\u00f3pez, who works for the local weeklies Horizonte and Noticias de Acayucan and the daily La Verdad, was believed to be on his way to the town of Soteapan after receiving a phone call. His car was later found on the road to Soteapan. Veracruz is often used as a transit point for drug cartels trafficking drugs to the USA.Sources: RSF/Index on Censorship", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Journalists murdered and missing in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-02-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Charlie Bruce was a Texas police chief of the old school. In more than four decades on the force he gave homegrown criminals good reason to steer clear of Del Rio, his small town on the United States's southern border, but held no grudge against the steady flow of Mexicans across the frontier in search of opportunity. He admired them for their hard work and the chances they took to better themselves. Besides, some of them built his house.What happened on the other side of the border, in Mexico, was another matter. There, Bruce unashamedly admits that for years he used his authority as a Texan police officer to run a lucrative smuggling racket. Mostly he dealt in duty-free whisky and cigarettes shipped in to Mexico, bribing officials with tens of thousands of dollars a time to avoid taxes, and then promptly selling the contraband on to Americans who brought it back across the border.Occasionally Bruce branched out. He laughs when he recalls the handsome profit made from exploiting a sugar shortage in the 70s by paying off an official to illegally sell him a stock of subsidised sugar sitting in a Mexican government warehouse, which he shipped to a pie-maker in Philadelphia.Now 75 and retired to a new house a stone's throw from the border, he recounts his years as a smuggler with undisguised pride and admits that it was all made possible by being a police officer. \"That's exactly why I got by with it, because I was well known over there. My shield was law enforcement. I got by with murder more than other people,\" he says. \"Other people may think it's wrong but the border's its own world.\"Bruce laughs derisively at Washington's grand scheme to change that world. In the coming weeks, the US department of homeland security expects to complete the final parts of a nearly 700 mile (1,100km) fence and wall along the Mexican border intended to curb the perpetual flow of Latin Americans in search of work, and to block the ceaseless caravan of drugs feeding a very demanding American habit. The spur, though, was 9/11 and the ever-present fear of terrorist infiltrators.The barrier covers one-third of the US's entire southern frontier with Mexico. In parts it is a fence about 5 metres (17ft) high built of a strong steel mesh and painted the same rust colour as the surrounding earth. In some places it is topped by coils of barbed wire; in others it is a solid steel wall. The fence cuts through towns and divides the desert. Its length is patrolled by thousands of armed border, drug enforcement and FBI agents. In Arizona they are complemented by an armed vigilante militia, the Minutemen.The remaining 1,300 miles of border will be protected by a \"virtual fence\" \u2013 a network of electronic sensors, cameras, towers and high-flying drones that can see for more than 300 miles \u2013 that's already in place along parts of the frontier, setting off border patrols in pursuit of figures seen scurrying across screens or picked up by the motion detectors. The whole project is costing more than $4bn (\u00a32.6bn), with the border fence alone working out at about $5m a mile.The barrier's supporters say it is good value for money in the face of what they portray as an onslaught of illegal immigrants \u2013 increasingly scapegoats for economic blight and unemployment as they are accused of \"stealing our jobs\" \u2013 drug traffickers and the threat of terrorism. Others back the fence as a means to discourage what they describe as a flood of Mexican women pouring in to the US to have \"anchor babies\" \u2013 children who automatically gain American citizenship by being born inside the country.Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, has backed the fence because, she says, her state has become \"the gateway to America for drug trafficking, extortion, kidnapping and crime\". Fear in the state was stoked by the death in March last year of an Arizona rancher who authorities believe was shot on his farm by a drug-smuggling scout. In December, a border patrol agent was murdered by smugglers.The barrier is a popular backdrop for political campaign adverts: John McCain was pictured driving along it demanding that the government \"finish the dang fence\". But for many who live on the border, particularly in Texas, alarm at the prospect of a fence dividing communities has turned to derision at what is shaping up to be a spectacular \u2013 and expensive \u2013 failure.\"The only thing it's deterred is a few wetbacks [Mexicans illegal immigrants] coming in and out,\" said Bruce. \"And it's only slowed them down because the economy's so bad there's no jobs on this side of the border. You get back to a hot economy, here they come. Goddamn you'd better get your horses out because there are going to be lots of them coming and no fence is going to stop them or anyone else.\"Eagle Pass was the first US settlement on the Rio Grande. A narrow stretch of the river divides it from Piedras Negras in Mexico, whose singular claim to recognition is as the birthplace of the nacho. Residents of the two towns mostly regard them as one. For years, Eagle Pass had almost no restaurants because its population strolled across the border to eat in the cheaper establishments on the other side. Almost everyone in the town is of Mexican origin and families straddle the border, which was what made estate agent Chad Foster so unusual when he was elected the first non-Hispanic mayor of Eagle Pass in more than four decades.\"They couldn't find anyone else so they came to me,\" he jokes. He proved a shrewd choice in 2004 when there was a Texan in the White House, George Bush, and Eagle Pass had caught Washington's eye as a gaping hole in border security.Foster is the kind of Texan \u2013 an imposing, hunting, bull-wrestling Republican who is rarely seen in public without his cowboy hat \u2013 who was not easily ignored in Bush-era Washington. But he didn't have anything to say that the administration wanted to hear. The department of homeland security was still planning the fence in 2006 and had latched on to Eagle Pass as a major problem. It wasn't hard to see why. The town's municipal golf course runs right up to the Rio Grande. Mexico is so close that players have little difficulty in whacking balls across the border. As it was, the real problem for golfers was to avoid hitting illegal immigrants who swam the river and scurried across the course every few minutes. \"There were 200-a-day coming across,\" says Foster. \"The Mexicans liked to cross there because they could disappear in to the town within minutes.\"Washington told Eagle Pass and other towns strung along the Texas border that it intended to build a barrier on the frontier. Mayors of the towns, grouped under the Texas Border Coalition (TBC), collectively renounced any physical barrier. Officials from Washington arrived to talk to Eagle Pass's council, where opposition hardened as they were told that the fence would run through the golf course. \"The number that David Aguilar, the head of border patrol, came up with is that the fence would slow down an illegal entry by three to four minutes,\" says Foster. \"To save three to four minutes and negatively impact our community and relations with our neighbours, you erect a wall between neighbours for no real purpose?\"So far as Foster and much of Eagle Pass was concerned the illegal immigrants weren't a problem. Most got through the town as fast as they could and kept going. Others provided the agricultural and construction labour that the local residents were not prepared to do. But the US's drug tsar, Gil Kerlikowske, has said the Texas border is his greatest concern because of the level of narcotraficante, or drug trafficker, violence on the other side. The Council on Foreign Relations says that Mexico is now more violent than Afghanistan or Iraq with its 20,000-plus deaths in the government's five-year war with the drug traffickers.Nowhere has been hit worse than Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez, sitting just across the river from the US town of El Paso. Ju\u00e1rez is arguably the most dangerous city in the western hemisphere, with about 3,000 killings there by narcotraficantes last year alone.\"It is more dangerous to walk the streets of Ju\u00e1rez, a few blocks from El Paso, than it is to walk the streets of Baghdad,\" the attorney general of Texas, Greg Abbott, told Fox News. \"There is a very serious problem that is beginning to bulge at our borders and put American lives at risk.\"What Abbot did not say was that whatever may be happening in Ju\u00e1rez, El Paso is statistically among the very safest cities in the US. There were just five murders there last year. In 2009 there were 12, still far below other US cities of a similar size.But then there was the ace up Washington's sleeve: terrorism. When the Border Patrol moved to persuade frontier communities of the need for the fence, the first slide in the presentation was an image of the Twin Towers burning on 11 September 2001. It's an emotional and persuasive argument for many Americans. If Mexicans can breeze across the border, why can't al-Qaida? Never mind that the perpetrators of all the terrorist attacks on the US over the past 20 years have arrived by plane on student or tourist visas. Or in the case of homegrown terrorists, such as Timothy McVeigh, who murdered 168 people by blowing up a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, via the local maternity ward.The government pressed ahead with its plan for the fence, regardless. Bush's homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, overrode dozens of federal statutes, and all state, city and tribal legislation governing everything from the environment, to property rights and historic preservation.As the fence went up through Eagle Pass, across the river in Piedras Negras the local state government was building a \"green wall\" of trees on the edge of the Rio Grande in repudiation. Residents such as Guillermo Berchelmann, who used to nip across the border to buy cigarettes because they were cheaper in the US, have seen the frontier solidify with closer immigration checks, delays and an erosion of the idea of two towns united by a common border.\"I'm no homeland security strategist but in our view the fence is offensive,\" says Berchelmann, who runs restaurants in both towns. \"People don't understand it. Eagle Pass and Piedras are one community. We intermarry. We have family there. Students from Eagle Pass come to school in Piedras Negras. We cross every day. We used to cross several times a day.\"Berchelmann says he is also upset at the rhetoric echoing across the US. \"I find it very disturbing. The language is offensive when they talk about anchor babies. It's their country, but are Mexicans taking away jobs from Americans? No. Those jobs were always done by Mexican immigrant workers. If you take those immigrants out, you stop agriculture cold. Corn production, wheat production, apples, oranges, you name it. That's the reality.\"But residents of Eagle Pass are increasingly fearful of crossing the border as drug gang violence in its twin has risen sharply. The town's police chief was murdered last April. He had been appointed just three weeks earlier to purge the force of corrupt links to the traffickers. In the following months, the deputy police chief and three other officers were abducted.Foster and other border mayors came to the view that the fence wasn't being built because of a serious threat to national security but to provide middle America with an illusion. \"This fence is a placebo. It gives somebody in mid-America a fluffy warm feeling. It really provides no real deterrent. Look at the wonderfully engineered tunnels under the physical barriers that have been constructed in California, Arizona and New Mexico. They're backing up vehicles and climbing over. It's a very expensive joke,\" says Foster.Efrain Valdez, the mayor of Del Rio and chairman of the TBC until last July, has also lashed out at supporters of the fence. \"Beginning in the early 20th century, the US government has financed the construction of border fences in El Paso. In 1925, a 'hog-tight, horse-high and bootlegger-proof' barbed-wire fence was built in El Paso. Observation towers were added in 1937,\" he wrote last year. \"As is true of the modern-day fence, the impact was minimal. The observation towers were removed under President Eisenhower, in part because of their resemblance to towers in East Berlin. In 1978, the fence between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez was replaced with new \"impregnable\" 12ft-high metal barriers topped with barbed concertina wire. The new fence's manufacturer claimed that the wire strands of which they were made would be so sharp that anyone who tried to scale them might lose his fingers and toes. Within a week after the fences were finished, they were full of holes, some large enough to drive a truck through.\"In the past few years, the US department of homeland security has spent hundreds of millions of dollars constructing new and 'improved' fencing between El Paso and Ju\u00e1rez, obviously with the same ineffective results that have been evident for 85 years.\"The ways around the fence have not changed much. In California, pickup trucks pull up, lean a ladder from the back to the top of the wire and the migrants are over in a minute. In the Arizona desert, smugglers have dug short tunnels under the fence. If the border patrol, farmers or Minutemen stumble on them, a new tunnel appears a few miles away. Other smugglers cut through the fence with hacksaws and blowtorches. Some have even built ramps to drive vehicles to the top of the wire and then lower immigrants down the other side.But the fence has not been without impact. The barrier may deter some immigrants but for others it has added to the physical dangers of seeking a better life. Some now cross deeper into the desert, to remote areas away from assistance, and pay with their lives. They take to backtrails, attempt to head through mountains. Often they are ill-prepared with insufficient water or protection from the relentless sun. Their corpses are increasingly found in Arizona, where the morgue in Tucson is now overflowing with unidentified bodies. Some areas are so isolated that by the time they are found the bodies are little more than skin on bone. Some immigrants, lost and knowing what awaits them, have hanged themselves from trees.Last year, the bodies of more than 400 suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert, mostly in Arizona. Governor Brewer misused the rising number of such deaths to justify her popular but constitutionally questionable law requiring the police to detain anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant. She claimed that some of the corpses were headless, murder victims of drug cartels. But when the police said no headless corpses had been found, Brewer declined to discuss her evidence and ran away from reporters pressing the question.Foster says Americans look to the fence because they lack the will to do what really has to be done to curb the flow of drugs \u2013 reduce the market and end the sale of weapons to the Mexican cartels. \"We're funding and arming the narcotraficantes, and then we blame the Mexicans,\" he says. \"Billions of dollars Americans have spent on drugs go back to Mexico. Ninety per cent of the guns the narcos use come from the US. And our government does almost nothing about it.\"The Obama administration appears to be recognising the futility of the barrier. Already it is backing away from the \"virtual fence\" after the US government has spent close to $1bn on the 53-mile network. An investigation by the GAO found that the electronic sensors could not tell the difference between people and small animals or large vehicles. The radar wasn't much better. It would have cost at least another $8bn to fill in the rest of the gaps.But now the US is left with a fence and wall full of holes. Charlie Bruce, the former sheriff, smiles at the absurdity of it all. And what he sees as the hypocrisy of his fellow Americans who vilify illegal immigrants and then hire them to clean their houses, tend their gardens and build their swimming pools. Americans such as Meg Whitman, the billionaire Republican contender to be governor of California who supports the border fence and opposes amnesty for illegal immigrants, and who was exposed as employing a housekeeper working illegally in the US for nearly a decade.\"A lot of these guys from Mexico, you've heard about them being lazy. They're definitely not lazy people. They're hard-working folks. I wonder in San Antonio and Dallas and Fort Worth and Austin how they'd ever build a goddamn house without Mexicans. They built this house here. I don't know where I would be without them Mexicans helping me,\" says Bruce.", "tags": ["US immigration", "US news", "US politics", "US domestic policy", "World news", "Mexico", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The battle of the US-Mexico frontier"},{"date": "2011-02-14T15:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This is grim news: food prices are reaching record levels worldwide. The thousands of farmers who have killed themselves over the past decade seem to have no precedent. According to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation's director, the goal to reduce the number of hungry people by half will only be achieved in 2050.In Mexico, this is just another facet of the crisis that started in the 80s, when the government dismantled its support for peasant farmers. \"My obligation as minister of agriculture is to get rid of 10 million peasants,\" declared Carlos Hank in 1991. \"What are you going to do with them?\" a journalist asked. \"That is not my area of work\", he answered.But no one assumed that responsibility. Vicente Fox, former president of Coca-Cola and president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, used to say \"those peasants can be gardeners in Texas\". For him and other policymakers, Mexico had too many peasants; America, their model, was producing food for the world with only 2.5% of the labour force. In 1992 they opened to the private market the land which had been in the hands of peasants since the 1910 revolution. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 1994, consolidated this anti-peasant orientation in the name of free market.Those policies drastically reduced food production, and Mexico now imports more than half of the grains it needs. Many Mexicans were forced to emigrate, and a fifth of Mexicans now live in the US.In 1974, the US minister of agriculture Earl Butz coined the expression \"food power\" \u2013 food pragmatically used as a political weapon. Hunger became one of the most profitable businesses of the century: immense subsidies transformed north America and Europe into food suppliers for countries previously exporting food, whose productive capacities were progressively dismantled. Today, OECD countries allocate $365bn a year to that purpose, a number now enlarged with ethanol subsidies: 120m tons of cereals feed cars, instead of people or animals, with no net reduction of emissions.Many Mexican peasants resisted the dominant policies and began to build their own alternative. Without official support, they increased both farmed areas and yields. Migrants invested part of their income in cultivation. Those initiatives are complemented by urban agriculture, following the Cuban example: Havana currently produces more than half of the food it consumes.The proportion of peasants in Mexico may have been falling (from 75% in 1945 to less than a third today), but their total number is higher than ever, with ranks continually swelled by urbanites escaping from unsustainable and violent cities who use modern technologies to create a new lifestyle in the countryside. (In the spirit of full disclosure, I should say that after 50 years in Mexico City, I now live in a small Zapotec village in southern Mexico where I produce more than half of what I eat, while learning convivial practices from my neighbours and plugging my computer into the internet.)A trend is settling. Just take a look at V\u00eda Campesina, the biggest peasant organisation in history which started in Latin America in the years of \"structural adjustment\". It soon became global and now boasts millions of members. Today, it is one of the main actors in the world food scene, opposing transnational corporations and affirming its food sovereignty paradigm and its new peasant internationalism. Novelist Eduardo Galeano said that in these times of global fear, some people are afraid of hunger and others afraid of eating, aware of the contaminated junk served in their plates. V\u00eda Campesina pressures all governments and attends all the pertinent international forums. But the hope for its members is no longer hanging on the market or the state. They put their hope and trust in their increasing capacity to define what they want to eat, and to produce it themselves. That is our hope.", "tags": ["Food security", "Mexico", "Food", "Environment", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Mexico goes back to the land | Gustavo Esteva"},{"date": "2011-01-14T15:42:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican government has released a database it says covers all murders presumed to have a link to the country's drug wars in which at least seven different cartels are fighting each other and federal forces deployed in a massive offensive against them launched in December 2006. The number of deaths has risen rapidly since then to total 34,612 up until the end of 2010, by far the most violent year so far with 15,273 people killed.The database is the most detailed official picture of the drug wars yet made public, showing the geographical distribution of the violence down to the municipal level. While no region has escaped, the killing is seen as particularly intense in northern and Pacific coastal states. Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from Texas, has been the most violent city since 2008 despite also have the heaviest federal presence.The figures released do not specify how many of those killed are presumed to be related to the cartels, how many belonged to the security forces, or how many were innocent civilians dragged into the horror.The data is very detailed - download the attached sheet for a breakdown by different types of murders and for each town.What can you do with it?SOURCE: PRESIDENT MEXICO OFFICE \u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 DATA: google fusion table version of the dataData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022\u00a0Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Drugs trade", "US news", "Technology"], "title": "Mexico drugs war murders data mapped"},{"date": "2011-02-18T13:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tuesday's brutal attack on two US law enforcement agents in Mexico has led to the normal sabre-rattling. Representative Michael McCaul of Texas has called it a \"game-changer\" and a \"wake-up call\" to the \"war on our nation's doorstep\". Last week, James Westphal, undersecretary of the Army, had already spoken of an \"armed insurgency\" in Mexico, and the possibility of sending \"armed and fighting\" troops across the border to prevent a \"takeover of government\". Secretary Janet Napolitano continually speaks of the \"war\" south of the border. James Clapper, national intelligence director, recently announced that Mexico has been promoted to being a top national security threat.Mexico has, indeed, reached a tipping point. But an escalation of the present military strategy will only make the situation worse. The best response to recent events is to end the war and proceed towards disarmament, instead of aggravating the conflict. Gil Kerlikowske, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has declared the end of the metaphorical \"war on drugs\" within US borders. The time has come also to bring a stop to the very real war on the drug cartels south of the border.The central problem with the military strategy is that it does not distinguish between violent and non-violent criminals, or serious and less harmful crimes. As Kerlikowske has pointed out, the Mexican cartels are not \"insurgents\" or \"terrorists\", but \"multivalent criminal organisations\", which have diversified into a wide variety of activities including kidnapping, extortion, piracy, human trafficking, money-laundering and government corruption, as well as the transportation and sale of illegal drugs.Of all of these crimes, by far the least harmful for social and economic development is the transportation of drugs. Although drug consumption is clearly damaging, simply transporting illegal substances does not, in itself, create violence, economic crisis or human suffering. And even the harm of drug consumption pales in comparison to the effects of kidnappings, beheadings and human trafficking, especially when the consumption involves marijuana, sales of which make up two thirds of the profits of the Mexican cartels.Nevertheless, due to pressure from the US government, the Mexican authorities have been forced to concentrate their scarce law enforcement resources on pursuing the least harmful crimes. This strategy has had the obvious consequence of pushing the criminals towards more dangerous and violent activities. The result: a stratospheric increase in violence, with over 35,000 assassinations in the past four years, 15,000 during 2010 alone. The problem in Mexico is, therefore, not a lack of firepower or support for the \"war on drugs\", but the very strategy of \"war\" itself.The real priority should be on punishing violent crimes, not the transportation of drugs. By turning the typical strategy on its head, Mexico would slowly start to separate the violent, dangerous criminals from those drug traffickers who are in the business principally for the money. Although this might not bring down the prices of illegal drugs on the streets of US cities, it would help end the violence, which today is paramount and may at some point spill over to the US.This proposal should not be confused with either legalisation or negotiation approaches. Increased liberalisation of marijuana consumption would reduce the urgency of controlling transportation routes, but this strategy is by no means dependent on the legalisation of drug use. And this idea in no way implies a pact with the cartels, in the style of the past authoritarian Mexican governments. On the contrary, the proposal is to increase, not reduce, the pressure on the most serious criminals.Such a change in strategy would immediately receive vigorous applause from the Mexican people. A growing number of Mexicans have come to the conclusion that peace and prosperity are more important than stopping the flow of drugs towards eager consumers in the United States. A broad new citizen movement has even emerged, rallying around the cry of: \"No more blood!\" Movement leaders agree that the drug cartels need to be controlled \u2013 but in a way that does not destroy the very fabric of society. It makes no sense to win the war, if it leaves the country in shambles.It is time for the Obama administration to listen to the Mexican people and not only to his military advisers. The roots of the problem obviously lie in the lack of regulation of the sale of assault weapons and in the high drug consumption in the US: 90% of weapons confiscated from Mexican cartels come from the US. But if it is not politically feasible to attend to these issues, the Obama administration can at least change the emphasis of its policy towards Mexico. The central objective should be the reduction of violence and the establishment of the rule of law. Without this, everything else is doomed to fail.The author of this piece, John Ackerman, has been participating in the conversation below as JohnMAckerman. This is an excerpt selected by a Cif editor:Whendovescry observes:The current violence started from a turf war that will wind down when the losers are eliminated.JohnMAckerman responds:You are absolutely correct. The problem is that if we continue along the same path the \"winners\" will not be US and Mexican government law enforcement, but a rival gang. This might lead to short term peace, but to long term consolidation of a \"narco state\" in Mexico.", "tags": ["Drugs trade", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Mexico", "US news", "US foreign policy", "US military", "US politics", "Obama administration"], "title": "Mexico, chief casualty of America's 'war on drugs' | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2011-02-17T18:32:55Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The Mexican ambassador in Paris has walked out of a meeting at the French senate amid an ongoing diplomatic row sparked by Nicolas Sarkozy over a French woman jailed in Mexico on kidnapping charges.Carlos de Icaza \"sadly found himself obliged to leave\" the event after France's foreign minister mentioned the case of Florence Cassez, the Mexican embassy said.\"Mexico cannot tolerate that judicial affairs be repeatedly dragged into [other, separate matters],\" Icaza said.France's president has been accused of acting like a banana republic dictator in trying to pressure Mexico to release Cassez.Sarkozy triggered a diplomatic row by casting Cassez, who recently lost her final appeal against a 60-year jail sentence, as a victim of Mexican injustice and demanding she be moved to French custody on humanitarian grounds.\"We will not abandon her,\" he said, after welcoming the 36-year-old's parents to the Elys\u00e9e Palace. He announced that a series of more than 350 events celebrating Mexican culture in France would be dedicated to Cassez, something she had suggested herself.Mexico's foreign ministry said it would boycott the year-long festival. \"It is really surprising that a head of state would make a foreign policy decision that affects ties between two nations and governments in consultation with a person condemned by Mexican justice for a particularly serious crime,\" said the ministry.Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican novelist and a former ambassador to France, accused Sarkozy of behaving like a \"dictator of a banana republic\" in mixing cultural relations with political, judicial and diplomatic ones.Cassez was convicted of being a member of Los Zodiaco, a kidnapping gang headed by her former boyfriend Israel Vallarta. He has confessed, but she has always insisted she is innocent and that she had no idea Vallarta was a kidnapper.Born in Lille, north France, Cassez was reportedly made redundant as manager of a local fashion and homeware store in 2003 after which she travelled to Mexico where her brother had set up a company selling medical equipment. She met Vallarta and moved in with him at his ranch on the rural outskirts of Mexico City.The ranch was at the centre of a dawn police raid on 9 December 2005. Police rescued a woman, her 11-year-old son and a young man being held at the ranch. Vallarta and Cassez were shown live on Mexican TV being arrested.A few weeks later it emerged that the couple were detained the day before, held incommunicado and then taken to the ranch to be arrested again for the cameras.The authorities insisted this had no bearing on the case against Cassez, which was based on the testimony of the rescued victims who identified her as an active participant in the gang. Although they had been blindfolded, they said they recognised her foreign accent and got occasional glimpses of her white feminine hands and red hair.Cristina R\u00edos and her son were held for 52 days while the gang pressured her husband to pay a 15m peso ransom\u00a0(\u00a3750,000).\"Now I hear Florence demanding justice and shouting her innocence and I hear the voice of the woman who, twisted with jealousy, screamed at her boyfriend when she found him raping me again, and then took her anger out on me,\" R\u00edos wrote in an open letter to the press. \"The same voice my son recognises as belonging to the woman who drew his blood to send to my husband.\"Cassez's lawyers claim the victims only identified her after the scandal over the staged arrest broke and that they were pressured into doing so. Her lawyers plan to take the case to international human rights courts.The offence taken by many Mexicans over Sarkozy's vociferous lobbying is palpable, despite the general recognition that miscarriages of justice are common in Mexico.\"It is the obligation of the Mexican state to defend our institutions because that is the defence of our sovereignty,\" Mar\u00eda Elena Morera, an anti-crime campaigner, wrote in national daily El Universal.The case has stirred some very old resentments, filling Twitter feeds with references to the pastry war, a brief invasion by the French fleet in 1838 nominally triggered by the ransacking of a French bakery in Mexico City.Sarkozy has also come under fire in France despite the widespread sympathy for Cassez.\"He is behaving like an elephant in a porcelain shop ... in just 24 hours he's upset a whole country,\" said Jean-Marcel Bouguereau in an editorial in La R\u00e9publique des Pyr\u00e9n\u00e9es.Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou, the centre candidate during the last presidential elections said the polemic was not helping Cassez. \"All these declarations are, I believe, dangerous for Florence Cassez because today all Mexicans feel insulted,\" he told French radio.\"This brutal diplomacy with excessive declarations is a risk and a danger for her.\"The international row comes at a time when French diplomacy is feeling bruised over its failure to get a grip on events in Tunisia and elsewhere in north Africa.Questions have also been raised over why the French president has adopted Cassez as a cause c\u00e9l\u00e8bre as opposed to any of the other estimated 2,500 French prisoners in jail abroad, including at least one facing imminent execution.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Mexico", "World news", "France", "Europe", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Nicolas Sarkozy triggers row with Mexico over French kidnapper"},{"date": "2011-01-13T01:08:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A total of 34,612 people have died in drug-related killings in Mexico in the four years since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n declared an offensive against cartels shortly after taking office, officials said tonight.Killings reached their highest level in 2010, when there were 15,273 deaths, up from 9,616 the previous year.At a meeting with anti-crime groups at which the government presented a data system to track drug-related crimes, Calder\u00f3n said 2010 had been \"a year of extreme violence\".The office of federal security spokesman, Alejandro Poire, said the four-year figure included 30,913 execution-style killings, 3,153 deaths in shootouts between gangs, and 546 deaths involving attacks on authorities.Calder\u00f3n said many of the killings in 2010 were generated by the turf war between the Zetas drug gang and their former allies in the Gulf cartel.About half the killings took place in three northern states: Chihuahua, Sinaloa and Tamaulipas.Poire said drug-related killings peaked in the third quarter of 2010 and declined by almost 11% in the fourth quarter.Calderon said the decline towards the end of the year was important but refused to rule out another rise.He said Mexico's 31 state governments must do more to deal with corruption in local police forces and to fight organised crime. The president said the federal government was doing its part, pointing to the recruitment of army troops to serve as state police officers in northern Nuevo Le\u00f3n state, where killings have spiked this year.Calder\u00f3n's interior secretary, Francisco Blake Mora, presented a prototype of a national identity card, Mexico's first to be distributed to youths under 18 in some states. Most Mexicans currently use their voter ID cards as identification, but the new cards will have better security measures, including digital fingerprints and iris images, to prevent criminals from using false IDs.In a separate development, the defence department said today that soldiers had caught Rigoberto Andrade Renter\u00eda, an alleged operations leader for the La Familia cartel, in the northern border city of Tijuana at the weekend. He was found with almost 60lb (27kg) of methamphetamine, it said.The government had offered a reward of 5 million pesos (\u00a3263,000) for information leading to his arrest. La Familia cartel is based in the western state of Michoac\u00e1n, but apparently has ties with traffickers in northern border states.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Mexico drug wars have killed 35,000 people in four years"},{"date": "2011-03-07T11:48:38Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small restaurant chain in Mexico city is about to play a pioneering role in a UN scheme to reduce carbon emissions at grass roots level.The pilot scheme is a new variant on the UN's troubled clean development mechanism (CDM), a system established by the Kyoto process that allows rich countries to meet emissions targets by funding clean energy projects in developing countries. Until recently, the CDM was open only to large individual projects, leading to criticism that it missed a trick on smaller schemes cutting emissions, such as the use of energy efficient light bulbs and more environmentally friendly stoves.The new scheme, on a small scale initially, hopes to address some of that criticism by retrofitting a device into some of the restaurant chain's fridges. Under the scheme developed by Ramp Carbon, a firm based in Melbourne, the restaurant chain is not charged up front for the technology, but put on a payment plan where it repays the cost out of the money saved in electricity bills. \"This means that if we can't demonstrate to them that the product has reduced their electricity bill, they don't have to pay us anything,\" said Phil Cohn, Ramp Carbon's founder said.A customer might be on a payment plan that lasts between one and two years depending on the specific set-up of their refrigeration systems. \"By removing the up-front cost, and structuring repayments out of demonstrated energy savings, we are trying to remove two significant barriers preventing access to energy efficiency technology in developing countries.\"Critics of the CDM, which governments view as a vital part of international efforts to cut emissions, say it also deters small-scale projects with its high administration costs for UN approval \u2013 $100,000 \u2013 and the scale required to trade credits in the European Emissions Trading Scheme.To rectify the problem, the UN approved two years ago the first of a new generation of carbon offset programmes that group together large numbers of small sources of greenhouse gases \u2013 such as the restaurant chain in Mexico city. Once bundled together, they come under a single large project to combine investments and emission reductions, and new participants can be added throughout the life of the scheme. The approach could also cover other activities such as solar water heating, small hydro plants, domestic bio-gas and energy-efficient lighting.Just six such projects have been registered so far by the UN, compared with traditional CDM, where 2,756 projects have been registered and nearly 550m carbon credits issued.However, the UN believes such a approach holds enormous potential for households or small industries, especially in less developed countries, as it opens up carbon finance opportunities to a wide range of players.\"The potential scale across Mexico and other developing countries is significant,\" said Cohn. \"We hope to be able to attract mainstream, commercial investors into an area [energy efficiency finance in SMEs] that has previously faced a number of barriers.\"The revenue gained by Ramp Carbon from trading carbon credits allows the company to reduce the price of the technology paid by the customer, further enabling broader take-up of the new technology.", "tags": ["Energy efficiency", "Energy", "Ethical and green living", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Mexico", "United Nations", "World news"], "title": "Fridges in Mexico restaurant hold key to UN's carbon emissions targets"},{"date": "2011-06-14T06:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The wave of violence against journalists in Mexico appears to have no end, with three more disturbing incidents in a week.Marco Antonio L\u00f3pez Ortiz, information chief for the newspaper Novedades Acapulco, was kidnapped by armed men on 7 June. After years as a tranquil tourist destination, Acapulco has become a battlefield for rival drug gangs. Carlos de Jes\u00fas Rodr\u00edguez, director of the news site Gobernantes.com, was arrested in Veracruz and beaten by police who falsely accused him of assaulting a woman. Freed without charge, he was admitted to hospital and reported to to be fighting for his life due to his injuries. His website said that Rodr\u00edguez had previously been threatened.In a third incident, the body of newspaper columnist Noel L\u00f3pez Olgu\u00edn, who disappeared on 8 March, was found in a secret grave.The body was found after a captured drug leader allegedly confessed to the killing and gave police the location of the grave.These attacks coincide with the publication of a report from PEN Canada and the International Human Rights Programme (IHRP) at the University of Toronto that accused the Mexican government of being complicit in crimes against the press in a country where roughly 70 journalists have been killed since 2000.See this Knight Centre map for more details about threats against journalists in Mexico.Sources: Knight Centre/CPJ/PEN Canada", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "More violence against journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-06-14T06:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The wave of violence against journalists in Mexico appears to have no end, with three more disturbing incidents in a week.Marco Antonio L\u00f3pez Ortiz, information chief for the newspaper Novedades Acapulco, was kidnapped by armed men on 7 June. After years as a tranquil tourist destination, Acapulco has become a battlefield for rival drug gangs. Carlos de Jes\u00fas Rodr\u00edguez, director of the news site Gobernantes.com, was arrested in Veracruz and beaten by police who falsely accused him of assaulting a woman. Freed without charge, he was admitted to hospital and reported to to be fighting for his life due to his injuries. His website said that Rodr\u00edguez had previously been threatened.In a third incident, the body of newspaper columnist Noel L\u00f3pez Olgu\u00edn, who disappeared on 8 March, was found in a secret grave.The body was found after a captured drug leader allegedly confessed to the killing and gave police the location of the grave.These attacks coincide with the publication of a report from PEN Canada and the International Human Rights Programme (IHRP) at the University of Toronto that accused the Mexican government of being complicit in crimes against the press in a country where roughly 70 journalists have been killed since 2000.See this Knight Centre map for more details about threats against journalists in Mexico.Sources: Knight Centre/CPJ/PEN Canada", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "More violence against journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-04-27T20:29:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Environmentalists reacted angrily after BP predicted it would be back drilling in the Gulf of Mexico within months despite facing billions in financial penalties over the Deepwater Horizon disaster \u2013 and despite balls of tar still washing up on beaches.The oil giant's finance director, Byron Grote, told City analysts: \"We expect to be back and actively drilling during the second half of the year.\" Such a return would be a major victory for BP \u2013 which last summer was threatened by a proposed law to ban the company from the Gulf for up to seven years.\"BP's reckless approach led to the worst oil disaster in American history, but one year later they're off the hook and ready to take more risks,\" said Phil Radford, director of Greenpeace USA. \"It's a testament to the political influence of these big oil companies that right now Tony Hayward is sailing his luxury yacht rather than facing criminal charges,\" he added.BP wants to resume drilling at its Thunderhorse and Atlantis fields, but the American regulator told the Guardian that nothing had been decided yet. \"They have not received any shallow or deep water permits,\" said Melissa Schwartz, spokeswoman for the government's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement.Another regulatory official said privately that BP expressions of confidence were \"pissing people off\" in the Obama administration and would not influence any decision on new drilling permits.BP has already set aside over $40bn to cover claims and damages over the blowout whose first year anniversary was marked last week by a raft of lawsuits. These were both from and against BP as blame for the disaster in which 11 workers lost their lives continues to be pinned on a variety of parties including rig operator, Transocean, and services company, Halliburton.Meanwhile some environmentalists remain concerned that the damage to the gulf still runs deep, with large amounts of oil continuing to cause damage.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "US news", "World news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Environment"], "title": "BP plans to drill in Gulf of Mexico within months"},{"date": "2011-06-14T06:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The wave of violence against journalists in Mexico appears to have no end, with three more disturbing incidents in a week.Marco Antonio L\u00f3pez Ortiz, information chief for the newspaper Novedades Acapulco, was kidnapped by armed men on 7 June. After years as a tranquil tourist destination, Acapulco has become a battlefield for rival drug gangs. Carlos de Jes\u00fas Rodr\u00edguez, director of the news site Gobernantes.com, was arrested in Veracruz and beaten by police who falsely accused him of assaulting a woman. Freed without charge, he was admitted to hospital and reported to to be fighting for his life due to his injuries. His website said that Rodr\u00edguez had previously been threatened.In a third incident, the body of newspaper columnist Noel L\u00f3pez Olgu\u00edn, who disappeared on 8 March, was found in a secret grave.The body was found after a captured drug leader allegedly confessed to the killing and gave police the location of the grave.These attacks coincide with the publication of a report from PEN Canada and the International Human Rights Programme (IHRP) at the University of Toronto that accused the Mexican government of being complicit in crimes against the press in a country where roughly 70 journalists have been killed since 2000.See this Knight Centre map for more details about threats against journalists in Mexico.Sources: Knight Centre/CPJ/PEN Canada", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "More violence against journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-04-27T20:29:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Environmentalists reacted angrily after BP predicted it would be back drilling in the Gulf of Mexico within months despite facing billions in financial penalties over the Deepwater Horizon disaster \u2013 and despite balls of tar still washing up on beaches.The oil giant's finance director, Byron Grote, told City analysts: \"We expect to be back and actively drilling during the second half of the year.\" Such a return would be a major victory for BP \u2013 which last summer was threatened by a proposed law to ban the company from the Gulf for up to seven years.\"BP's reckless approach led to the worst oil disaster in American history, but one year later they're off the hook and ready to take more risks,\" said Phil Radford, director of Greenpeace USA. \"It's a testament to the political influence of these big oil companies that right now Tony Hayward is sailing his luxury yacht rather than facing criminal charges,\" he added.BP wants to resume drilling at its Thunderhorse and Atlantis fields, but the American regulator told the Guardian that nothing had been decided yet. \"They have not received any shallow or deep water permits,\" said Melissa Schwartz, spokeswoman for the government's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement.Another regulatory official said privately that BP expressions of confidence were \"pissing people off\" in the Obama administration and would not influence any decision on new drilling permits.BP has already set aside over $40bn to cover claims and damages over the blowout whose first year anniversary was marked last week by a raft of lawsuits. These were both from and against BP as blame for the disaster in which 11 workers lost their lives continues to be pinned on a variety of parties including rig operator, Transocean, and services company, Halliburton.Meanwhile some environmentalists remain concerned that the damage to the gulf still runs deep, with large amounts of oil continuing to cause damage.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "US news", "World news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Environment"], "title": "BP plans to drill in Gulf of Mexico within months"},{"date": "2011-04-08T10:00:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Forensic workers have begun identifying 59 corpses from mass graves in the north-eastern state of Tamaulipas in the latest atrocity to be uncovered in Mexico's drug wars.Security forces found the graves on Wednesday while investigating reports that cartel hitmen in the area had been pulling people off buses, possibly in a forced recruitment drive.The discovery came as tens of thousands of people marched in simultaneous protests held in cities across Mexico demanding an end to the violence. The marches were prompted by the torture and murder of Juan Francisco Sicilia, the son of a well-loved poet, along with six other people with no links to the cartels.\"This is a national emergency,\" Sicilia's father Javier said during the biggest of the marches held in the city of Cuernavaca, just outside the capital, where the murders took place. \"Mexico doesn't want to labour under this stupid war any more.\"More than 35,000 people have died in violence related to the drug war since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the cartels shortly after taking office in December 2006.The government blames the death toll on a series of turf battles raging on different fronts across the country and involving at least six different cartels. It insists that the vast majority of the victims are associated with the gangs, and that the federal forces are having significant success in weakening them. Although Calder\u00f3n accepts that civilians uninvolved in the drug war are also dying, he rejects growing demands for a change of strategy that formed one of the main themes of this week's protests.\"We should all join the condemnation of the violence generated by the criminals and the absolute conviction of the federal government to continue to confront criminality,\" he said in a statement released in response to the discovery of the graves in Tamaulipas.The eight pits, one of which contained 43 corpses, were found not far from the ranch were 72 Central and South American migrants were massacred eight months ago.The state authorities said the first three to be identified from the latest grisly discovery were Mexicans, and that two were women. Social media buzzed with rumours that there were more bodies yet to be officially accounted for.\"Tamaulipas has become a narcograve,\" @algomendez tweeted on Thursday. The phrase was retweeted throughout the day, as residents described their sense of impotence in a state terrorised by a war between the Gulf and Zeta cartels which federal forces seems powerless to stop.The killings in Cuernavaca, meanwhile, have had a profound impact on the middle classes and the intelligentsia in and around the capital, who previously felt themselves somewhat immune from the violence. One banner in the Mexico City march read: \"Today a student, tomorrow a corpse.\"The six were killed on 28 March after leaving a bar in Cuernavaca. They had been reportedly talking about the violence that has shaken the area since last year, though it is still much more sporadic than in Tamaulipas.Local authorities said they had issued warrants for the arrest of two suspects who are former members of the security forces.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Mexico drug war: corpses found in Tamaulipas mass grave identified"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-12T11:26:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month a journalist in Mexico City called on motorists to squash cyclists and rid the city of a plague.The outburst from Angel Verdugo, who has since lost his job, prompted a group of around 220 cyclists to gather at the foot of El Angel de la Independencia, one of Mexico City's famous landmarks and a meeting point for demonstrations.Cyclists regarded his comments as tasteless given the current climate of violence in Mexico. \"He wanted two groups of citizens to fight each other,\" said Jesus Martin Gomez, president of the Commission of Urban Cycling in Mexico City. \"Mexico does not need more bloodshed,\" he stated. \"This gathering is to show the press we are against incitements to violence.\"The demonstration, organised through Facebook and attended by members of various cycling groups, also aimed to raise awareness of the difficulties cyclists in Mexico City face. One of their main objectives is to be safer when out cycling.The city has become more cycle-friendly in the last few years with the introduction of abike hire scheme and more cycle lanes, but cyclists say that it is not enough. One thing they are pushing for is better infrastructure for both bikers and pedestrians, meaning more cycle paths and better signposting. Jordi Melendez, one of the event organisers, explained that cyclists are marginalised when it comes to road use. \"Our aim is clear,\" he stated. \"The street is a public area and there is plenty of space for everyone.\"Neil Steinman, a German living in Mexico City, has been sharing road space with Mexican drivers for the past six years. He says he finds them more aggressive than German motorists. \"In Germany motorists are more used to cyclists,\" he said. \"They respect them a bit more.\" He said cycling around the city was almost impossible when he first arrived. \"There has been big advance in the last years.\"Aggression from drivers is not the only problem. Gomez complains that many motorists do not know the rules of the road because they are not made to sit a driving exam before getting their licence. Gomez is in the process of forming a new cycling commission, which aims to push politicians for changes in legislation. What cyclists in this city want, according to Gomez, \"Is that clear laws are established with regards to cycling.\"The organisation is also asking for changes in how the city's transportation budget is spent, asking that 5% of government transport funding be set aside for cycling. Part of this budget would be put towards campaigns educating people on road awareness. Something which Mexico is sorely in need of, according to Gomez. \"When pedestrians go to cross the road here, drivers speed up,\" he stated. \"We do not have a culture of road awareness.\"It is not only current cyclists who would benefit from the improvements. Isabel Le\u00f3n, professional cyclist and Mexico world champion, believes better legislation would create more cyclists. Mexico is currently suffering an obesity problem. \"Mexico needs its people to be more active,\" she stated. Cycling, she explains, brings many benefits, \"Not only in terms of physical health, but also it makes people healthier mentally.\"At the protest, with much ringing of bells and whistling, the group of cyclists got ready to ride in protest to the radio station of the disgraced journalist to hand in a letter of protest. Melendez is pleased with the turnout. \"The violence that Mexico is suffering now can be combated using many different strategies,\" he explained. \"One of these is the reclaiming of public spaces.\" In the long term he has hope for the future of cycling in the city. \"We are many and we feel that we can create change in a creative way.\"\u2022 Ela Stapley is a freelance journalist based in Mexico", "tags": ["Cycling", "Life and style", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City cyclists rally to reclaim the streets | Ela Stapley"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-12T11:26:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month a journalist in Mexico City called on motorists to squash cyclists and rid the city of a plague.The outburst from Angel Verdugo, who has since lost his job, prompted a group of around 220 cyclists to gather at the foot of El Angel de la Independencia, one of Mexico City's famous landmarks and a meeting point for demonstrations.Cyclists regarded his comments as tasteless given the current climate of violence in Mexico. \"He wanted two groups of citizens to fight each other,\" said Jesus Martin Gomez, president of the Commission of Urban Cycling in Mexico City. \"Mexico does not need more bloodshed,\" he stated. \"This gathering is to show the press we are against incitements to violence.\"The demonstration, organised through Facebook and attended by members of various cycling groups, also aimed to raise awareness of the difficulties cyclists in Mexico City face. One of their main objectives is to be safer when out cycling.The city has become more cycle-friendly in the last few years with the introduction of abike hire scheme and more cycle lanes, but cyclists say that it is not enough. One thing they are pushing for is better infrastructure for both bikers and pedestrians, meaning more cycle paths and better signposting. Jordi Melendez, one of the event organisers, explained that cyclists are marginalised when it comes to road use. \"Our aim is clear,\" he stated. \"The street is a public area and there is plenty of space for everyone.\"Neil Steinman, a German living in Mexico City, has been sharing road space with Mexican drivers for the past six years. He says he finds them more aggressive than German motorists. \"In Germany motorists are more used to cyclists,\" he said. \"They respect them a bit more.\" He said cycling around the city was almost impossible when he first arrived. \"There has been big advance in the last years.\"Aggression from drivers is not the only problem. Gomez complains that many motorists do not know the rules of the road because they are not made to sit a driving exam before getting their licence. Gomez is in the process of forming a new cycling commission, which aims to push politicians for changes in legislation. What cyclists in this city want, according to Gomez, \"Is that clear laws are established with regards to cycling.\"The organisation is also asking for changes in how the city's transportation budget is spent, asking that 5% of government transport funding be set aside for cycling. Part of this budget would be put towards campaigns educating people on road awareness. Something which Mexico is sorely in need of, according to Gomez. \"When pedestrians go to cross the road here, drivers speed up,\" he stated. \"We do not have a culture of road awareness.\"It is not only current cyclists who would benefit from the improvements. Isabel Le\u00f3n, professional cyclist and Mexico world champion, believes better legislation would create more cyclists. Mexico is currently suffering an obesity problem. \"Mexico needs its people to be more active,\" she stated. Cycling, she explains, brings many benefits, \"Not only in terms of physical health, but also it makes people healthier mentally.\"At the protest, with much ringing of bells and whistling, the group of cyclists got ready to ride in protest to the radio station of the disgraced journalist to hand in a letter of protest. Melendez is pleased with the turnout. \"The violence that Mexico is suffering now can be combated using many different strategies,\" he explained. \"One of these is the reclaiming of public spaces.\" In the long term he has hope for the future of cycling in the city. \"We are many and we feel that we can create change in a creative way.\"\u2022 Ela Stapley is a freelance journalist based in Mexico", "tags": ["Cycling", "Life and style", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City cyclists rally to reclaim the streets | Ela Stapley"},{"date": "2011-09-04T22:12:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A man and a woman are facing 30-year prison terms in Mexico for allegedly using Twitter to spread panic over a series of child kidnappings.Gilberto Martinez Vera, 48, a private school teacher, and Maria de Jesus Bravo Pagola, a radio presenter, were accused of spreading false reports that gunmen were attacking schools in the south-eastern city of Veracruz.The resulting panic caused dozens of car crashes after parents rushed to save their children from schools across the city and jammed emergency telephone lines, which \"totally collapsed\" under the pressure.Gerardo Buganza, the interior secretary for Veracruz state, compared the ensuing chaos to Orson Welles's spoof news broadcast War of the Worlds in 1938. The two are facing charges under terrorism laws.\"There were 26 car accidents, or people left their cars in the middle of the streets to run and pick up their children, because they thought these things were occurring at their kids' schools,\" Buganza said.The charges, which said that phone lines \"totally collapsed because people were terrified\" are the most serious charges to come from using Twitter to incite violence or chaos.Last month in the UK, Jordan Blackshaw, 20, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were both sentenced to four years in prison for inciting people to riot in the Manchester area. Despite setting up an event called Smash Down in Northwich Town on Facebook, only Blackshaw and the police, who were monitoring the page, turned up at a designated meeting spot.The false reports in Mexico followed general unease over recent drug gang violence in the city. In one reported incident a gunman tossed a grenade near a tourist attraction, killing one tourist. Tensions were also raised after armed convoys of marines were drafted on to the streets in August.Prosecutors allege that Vera then posted numerous messages on Twitter saying gunmen were kidnapping children from local schools. In one message he is said to have tweeted: \"My sister-in-law just called me all upset, they just kidnapped five children from the school.\"Other tweets included a story about six teenagers who were run over in one neighbourhood but although prosecutors acknowledge the incident happened, they said it did not involve any children.Pagola, who also styled herself a \"TwitTerrorist\" on the Facebook website, is accused of spreading rumours of child kidnapping using the social network \u2013 a charge she denies. Lawyers for both defendants have argued that both were repeating rumours they had already seen on the internet.Speaking through her lawyer, Pagola said: \"How can they possibly do this to me, for re-tweeting a message? I mean, it's 140 characters. It's not logical.\"Amnesty International accused officials of violating freedom of expression and instead blamed the panic on the city drug wars, in which 35,000 people are believed to have been killed in five years and which has seen people turning to social networks for information \u2013 both true and false.Amnesty said: \"The lack of safety creates an atmosphere of mistrust in which rumours that circulate on social networks are part of people's efforts to protect themselves, since there is very little trustworthy information.\"Raul Trejo, a Mexican media expert, said that while the terrorism charge was unwarranted, the actions of Vera and Pagola were \"a very incautious use of Twitter.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Media"], "title": "'Twitter terrorists' face 30 years after being charged in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-12T11:26:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month a journalist in Mexico City called on motorists to squash cyclists and rid the city of a plague.The outburst from Angel Verdugo, who has since lost his job, prompted a group of around 220 cyclists to gather at the foot of El Angel de la Independencia, one of Mexico City's famous landmarks and a meeting point for demonstrations.Cyclists regarded his comments as tasteless given the current climate of violence in Mexico. \"He wanted two groups of citizens to fight each other,\" said Jesus Martin Gomez, president of the Commission of Urban Cycling in Mexico City. \"Mexico does not need more bloodshed,\" he stated. \"This gathering is to show the press we are against incitements to violence.\"The demonstration, organised through Facebook and attended by members of various cycling groups, also aimed to raise awareness of the difficulties cyclists in Mexico City face. One of their main objectives is to be safer when out cycling.The city has become more cycle-friendly in the last few years with the introduction of abike hire scheme and more cycle lanes, but cyclists say that it is not enough. One thing they are pushing for is better infrastructure for both bikers and pedestrians, meaning more cycle paths and better signposting. Jordi Melendez, one of the event organisers, explained that cyclists are marginalised when it comes to road use. \"Our aim is clear,\" he stated. \"The street is a public area and there is plenty of space for everyone.\"Neil Steinman, a German living in Mexico City, has been sharing road space with Mexican drivers for the past six years. He says he finds them more aggressive than German motorists. \"In Germany motorists are more used to cyclists,\" he said. \"They respect them a bit more.\" He said cycling around the city was almost impossible when he first arrived. \"There has been big advance in the last years.\"Aggression from drivers is not the only problem. Gomez complains that many motorists do not know the rules of the road because they are not made to sit a driving exam before getting their licence. Gomez is in the process of forming a new cycling commission, which aims to push politicians for changes in legislation. What cyclists in this city want, according to Gomez, \"Is that clear laws are established with regards to cycling.\"The organisation is also asking for changes in how the city's transportation budget is spent, asking that 5% of government transport funding be set aside for cycling. Part of this budget would be put towards campaigns educating people on road awareness. Something which Mexico is sorely in need of, according to Gomez. \"When pedestrians go to cross the road here, drivers speed up,\" he stated. \"We do not have a culture of road awareness.\"It is not only current cyclists who would benefit from the improvements. Isabel Le\u00f3n, professional cyclist and Mexico world champion, believes better legislation would create more cyclists. Mexico is currently suffering an obesity problem. \"Mexico needs its people to be more active,\" she stated. Cycling, she explains, brings many benefits, \"Not only in terms of physical health, but also it makes people healthier mentally.\"At the protest, with much ringing of bells and whistling, the group of cyclists got ready to ride in protest to the radio station of the disgraced journalist to hand in a letter of protest. Melendez is pleased with the turnout. \"The violence that Mexico is suffering now can be combated using many different strategies,\" he explained. \"One of these is the reclaiming of public spaces.\" In the long term he has hope for the future of cycling in the city. \"We are many and we feel that we can create change in a creative way.\"\u2022 Ela Stapley is a freelance journalist based in Mexico", "tags": ["Cycling", "Life and style", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City cyclists rally to reclaim the streets | Ela Stapley"},{"date": "2011-09-04T22:12:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A man and a woman are facing 30-year prison terms in Mexico for allegedly using Twitter to spread panic over a series of child kidnappings.Gilberto Martinez Vera, 48, a private school teacher, and Maria de Jesus Bravo Pagola, a radio presenter, were accused of spreading false reports that gunmen were attacking schools in the south-eastern city of Veracruz.The resulting panic caused dozens of car crashes after parents rushed to save their children from schools across the city and jammed emergency telephone lines, which \"totally collapsed\" under the pressure.Gerardo Buganza, the interior secretary for Veracruz state, compared the ensuing chaos to Orson Welles's spoof news broadcast War of the Worlds in 1938. The two are facing charges under terrorism laws.\"There were 26 car accidents, or people left their cars in the middle of the streets to run and pick up their children, because they thought these things were occurring at their kids' schools,\" Buganza said.The charges, which said that phone lines \"totally collapsed because people were terrified\" are the most serious charges to come from using Twitter to incite violence or chaos.Last month in the UK, Jordan Blackshaw, 20, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were both sentenced to four years in prison for inciting people to riot in the Manchester area. Despite setting up an event called Smash Down in Northwich Town on Facebook, only Blackshaw and the police, who were monitoring the page, turned up at a designated meeting spot.The false reports in Mexico followed general unease over recent drug gang violence in the city. In one reported incident a gunman tossed a grenade near a tourist attraction, killing one tourist. Tensions were also raised after armed convoys of marines were drafted on to the streets in August.Prosecutors allege that Vera then posted numerous messages on Twitter saying gunmen were kidnapping children from local schools. In one message he is said to have tweeted: \"My sister-in-law just called me all upset, they just kidnapped five children from the school.\"Other tweets included a story about six teenagers who were run over in one neighbourhood but although prosecutors acknowledge the incident happened, they said it did not involve any children.Pagola, who also styled herself a \"TwitTerrorist\" on the Facebook website, is accused of spreading rumours of child kidnapping using the social network \u2013 a charge she denies. Lawyers for both defendants have argued that both were repeating rumours they had already seen on the internet.Speaking through her lawyer, Pagola said: \"How can they possibly do this to me, for re-tweeting a message? I mean, it's 140 characters. It's not logical.\"Amnesty International accused officials of violating freedom of expression and instead blamed the panic on the city drug wars, in which 35,000 people are believed to have been killed in five years and which has seen people turning to social networks for information \u2013 both true and false.Amnesty said: \"The lack of safety creates an atmosphere of mistrust in which rumours that circulate on social networks are part of people's efforts to protect themselves, since there is very little trustworthy information.\"Raul Trejo, a Mexican media expert, said that while the terrorism charge was unwarranted, the actions of Vera and Pagola were \"a very incautious use of Twitter.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Media"], "title": "'Twitter terrorists' face 30 years after being charged in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-08-26T12:30:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This year marked my tenth summer in the same fire tower, watching over a swath of the Gila National Forest in south-west New Mexico, where every year hundreds of lightning-caused wildfires erupt on the landscape. When people ask me what, precisely, I do there, the simplest answer I can offer is that I'm paid to watch mountains all day. If a wisp of smoke arises, I use my two-way radio to call a dispatcher and sound the alarm. Sometimes the fires are fought, sometimes they are allowed to burn, depending on a murky calculation of \"values at risk\" versus \"benefit to forest resources\". From the beginning of May to the middle of August this year, I spotted six fires, fewer than one for every 10 days I spent in my lookout tower. For most of the summer, then, my time was my own and so were the moods of the mountain. No television. No internet connection. No telephone. Five miles from the nearest road.Sheer bliss, in another words. For a little while.For much of this summer the mood of the mountain was severe. A vicious winter drought had seared the American south-west, and in May and June the wind blew fiercely, sometimes gusting above 60 miles an hour. Off to my west a hundred miles or so, on the other side of the state line, giant wildfires raged, filling my horizon with smoke. On certain days it appeared that the entire state of Arizona was engulfed in flames. The Wallow Fire, now on record as the largest wildfire in Arizona history, burned more than 800 square miles and crossed into New Mexico on its eastern front. The sunsets were apocalyptic.And then, as they do most years in July, the rains came and put an end to the burning. Instead of flames and smoke, the dangers turned to runoff and flooding, as thunderstorms dropped heavy rain on country where the grass and trees had burned away, exposing naked topsoil. Another danger arose in the form of opportunists and ideologues. Politicians arranged for public meetings to castigate the US Forest Service for mismanaging the forests. They joined with the logging and grazing interests to propose that chainsaws and cows could prevent large fires in the future, if only the loggers and ranchers were given a free hand to do as they pleased on public land owned by all Americans.The irony was delicious, for if you talk to scientists, they will tell you it is precisely logging and grazing \u2013 as well as a century of rabid fire suppression \u2013 that have brought us the spectacle of huge, unstoppable fires in the forests of the American southwest. As recently as the 19th century, the fire regime on these lands consisted of frequent (we're talking twice or more per decade) low-intensity surface fires moving mainly through grass, preserving the widely-spaced trees of the old-growth forest. Ponderosa pines, in particular, were perfectly adapted to withstand such fires. Their thick, fire-resistant bark, coupled with their evolutionary habit of dropping lower limbs as they grow, made them hardy survivors in a fire-prone ecosystem. Then the cutting and the grazing began. Second-growth forest grew back in denser stands, in part because voracious cattle had skinned away the grass, removing the fine fuels on which wildfire had previously fed. Fire suppression only enhanced the density of fuels, as tree and brush saplings that would have once been snuffed out by fires, or prevented from sprouting at all by the densely rooted grass, took hold and spread. This left us with fuel loads orders of magnitude beyond historical norms. Seared by drought, a sick and unnatural forest was perfectly primed to go up in a giant plume of smoke.There is a saying among some of my colleagues in the wildfire community: that during the 20th century, despite our phenomenal success in suppressing fires on public land, we were not so much putting out fires as putting them off. Not any longer. Especially amid the effects of climate change, the days of putting off fires are over. But if I've learned anything in my decade of quiet mountain-watching, it is that fire is as much a creative as a destructive force, and from amid the blackened stumps the forest will renew itself once more. What kind of forest we will have is uncertain. Will we follow the prescription of the ranchers and loggers and their minions in Congress, and turn loose the cows and the chainsaws, repeating the mistakes that brought us here in the first place? Or will we learn some humility, recognise that we live in a fire-adapted ecosystem, and allow the land to follow its own, sometimes fiery course to recovery?The answers to these questions will determine the character of the fires next time.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Wildfires", "Deforestation", "US news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "How humans added fuel to the wildfires of New Mexico | Philip Connors"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-12T11:26:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month a journalist in Mexico City called on motorists to squash cyclists and rid the city of a plague.The outburst from Angel Verdugo, who has since lost his job, prompted a group of around 220 cyclists to gather at the foot of El Angel de la Independencia, one of Mexico City's famous landmarks and a meeting point for demonstrations.Cyclists regarded his comments as tasteless given the current climate of violence in Mexico. \"He wanted two groups of citizens to fight each other,\" said Jesus Martin Gomez, president of the Commission of Urban Cycling in Mexico City. \"Mexico does not need more bloodshed,\" he stated. \"This gathering is to show the press we are against incitements to violence.\"The demonstration, organised through Facebook and attended by members of various cycling groups, also aimed to raise awareness of the difficulties cyclists in Mexico City face. One of their main objectives is to be safer when out cycling.The city has become more cycle-friendly in the last few years with the introduction of abike hire scheme and more cycle lanes, but cyclists say that it is not enough. One thing they are pushing for is better infrastructure for both bikers and pedestrians, meaning more cycle paths and better signposting. Jordi Melendez, one of the event organisers, explained that cyclists are marginalised when it comes to road use. \"Our aim is clear,\" he stated. \"The street is a public area and there is plenty of space for everyone.\"Neil Steinman, a German living in Mexico City, has been sharing road space with Mexican drivers for the past six years. He says he finds them more aggressive than German motorists. \"In Germany motorists are more used to cyclists,\" he said. \"They respect them a bit more.\" He said cycling around the city was almost impossible when he first arrived. \"There has been big advance in the last years.\"Aggression from drivers is not the only problem. Gomez complains that many motorists do not know the rules of the road because they are not made to sit a driving exam before getting their licence. Gomez is in the process of forming a new cycling commission, which aims to push politicians for changes in legislation. What cyclists in this city want, according to Gomez, \"Is that clear laws are established with regards to cycling.\"The organisation is also asking for changes in how the city's transportation budget is spent, asking that 5% of government transport funding be set aside for cycling. Part of this budget would be put towards campaigns educating people on road awareness. Something which Mexico is sorely in need of, according to Gomez. \"When pedestrians go to cross the road here, drivers speed up,\" he stated. \"We do not have a culture of road awareness.\"It is not only current cyclists who would benefit from the improvements. Isabel Le\u00f3n, professional cyclist and Mexico world champion, believes better legislation would create more cyclists. Mexico is currently suffering an obesity problem. \"Mexico needs its people to be more active,\" she stated. Cycling, she explains, brings many benefits, \"Not only in terms of physical health, but also it makes people healthier mentally.\"At the protest, with much ringing of bells and whistling, the group of cyclists got ready to ride in protest to the radio station of the disgraced journalist to hand in a letter of protest. Melendez is pleased with the turnout. \"The violence that Mexico is suffering now can be combated using many different strategies,\" he explained. \"One of these is the reclaiming of public spaces.\" In the long term he has hope for the future of cycling in the city. \"We are many and we feel that we can create change in a creative way.\"\u2022 Ela Stapley is a freelance journalist based in Mexico", "tags": ["Cycling", "Life and style", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City cyclists rally to reclaim the streets | Ela Stapley"},{"date": "2011-09-04T22:12:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A man and a woman are facing 30-year prison terms in Mexico for allegedly using Twitter to spread panic over a series of child kidnappings.Gilberto Martinez Vera, 48, a private school teacher, and Maria de Jesus Bravo Pagola, a radio presenter, were accused of spreading false reports that gunmen were attacking schools in the south-eastern city of Veracruz.The resulting panic caused dozens of car crashes after parents rushed to save their children from schools across the city and jammed emergency telephone lines, which \"totally collapsed\" under the pressure.Gerardo Buganza, the interior secretary for Veracruz state, compared the ensuing chaos to Orson Welles's spoof news broadcast War of the Worlds in 1938. The two are facing charges under terrorism laws.\"There were 26 car accidents, or people left their cars in the middle of the streets to run and pick up their children, because they thought these things were occurring at their kids' schools,\" Buganza said.The charges, which said that phone lines \"totally collapsed because people were terrified\" are the most serious charges to come from using Twitter to incite violence or chaos.Last month in the UK, Jordan Blackshaw, 20, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were both sentenced to four years in prison for inciting people to riot in the Manchester area. Despite setting up an event called Smash Down in Northwich Town on Facebook, only Blackshaw and the police, who were monitoring the page, turned up at a designated meeting spot.The false reports in Mexico followed general unease over recent drug gang violence in the city. In one reported incident a gunman tossed a grenade near a tourist attraction, killing one tourist. Tensions were also raised after armed convoys of marines were drafted on to the streets in August.Prosecutors allege that Vera then posted numerous messages on Twitter saying gunmen were kidnapping children from local schools. In one message he is said to have tweeted: \"My sister-in-law just called me all upset, they just kidnapped five children from the school.\"Other tweets included a story about six teenagers who were run over in one neighbourhood but although prosecutors acknowledge the incident happened, they said it did not involve any children.Pagola, who also styled herself a \"TwitTerrorist\" on the Facebook website, is accused of spreading rumours of child kidnapping using the social network \u2013 a charge she denies. Lawyers for both defendants have argued that both were repeating rumours they had already seen on the internet.Speaking through her lawyer, Pagola said: \"How can they possibly do this to me, for re-tweeting a message? I mean, it's 140 characters. It's not logical.\"Amnesty International accused officials of violating freedom of expression and instead blamed the panic on the city drug wars, in which 35,000 people are believed to have been killed in five years and which has seen people turning to social networks for information \u2013 both true and false.Amnesty said: \"The lack of safety creates an atmosphere of mistrust in which rumours that circulate on social networks are part of people's efforts to protect themselves, since there is very little trustworthy information.\"Raul Trejo, a Mexican media expert, said that while the terrorism charge was unwarranted, the actions of Vera and Pagola were \"a very incautious use of Twitter.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Media"], "title": "'Twitter terrorists' face 30 years after being charged in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-08-26T12:30:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This year marked my tenth summer in the same fire tower, watching over a swath of the Gila National Forest in south-west New Mexico, where every year hundreds of lightning-caused wildfires erupt on the landscape. When people ask me what, precisely, I do there, the simplest answer I can offer is that I'm paid to watch mountains all day. If a wisp of smoke arises, I use my two-way radio to call a dispatcher and sound the alarm. Sometimes the fires are fought, sometimes they are allowed to burn, depending on a murky calculation of \"values at risk\" versus \"benefit to forest resources\". From the beginning of May to the middle of August this year, I spotted six fires, fewer than one for every 10 days I spent in my lookout tower. For most of the summer, then, my time was my own and so were the moods of the mountain. No television. No internet connection. No telephone. Five miles from the nearest road.Sheer bliss, in another words. For a little while.For much of this summer the mood of the mountain was severe. A vicious winter drought had seared the American south-west, and in May and June the wind blew fiercely, sometimes gusting above 60 miles an hour. Off to my west a hundred miles or so, on the other side of the state line, giant wildfires raged, filling my horizon with smoke. On certain days it appeared that the entire state of Arizona was engulfed in flames. The Wallow Fire, now on record as the largest wildfire in Arizona history, burned more than 800 square miles and crossed into New Mexico on its eastern front. The sunsets were apocalyptic.And then, as they do most years in July, the rains came and put an end to the burning. Instead of flames and smoke, the dangers turned to runoff and flooding, as thunderstorms dropped heavy rain on country where the grass and trees had burned away, exposing naked topsoil. Another danger arose in the form of opportunists and ideologues. Politicians arranged for public meetings to castigate the US Forest Service for mismanaging the forests. They joined with the logging and grazing interests to propose that chainsaws and cows could prevent large fires in the future, if only the loggers and ranchers were given a free hand to do as they pleased on public land owned by all Americans.The irony was delicious, for if you talk to scientists, they will tell you it is precisely logging and grazing \u2013 as well as a century of rabid fire suppression \u2013 that have brought us the spectacle of huge, unstoppable fires in the forests of the American southwest. As recently as the 19th century, the fire regime on these lands consisted of frequent (we're talking twice or more per decade) low-intensity surface fires moving mainly through grass, preserving the widely-spaced trees of the old-growth forest. Ponderosa pines, in particular, were perfectly adapted to withstand such fires. Their thick, fire-resistant bark, coupled with their evolutionary habit of dropping lower limbs as they grow, made them hardy survivors in a fire-prone ecosystem. Then the cutting and the grazing began. Second-growth forest grew back in denser stands, in part because voracious cattle had skinned away the grass, removing the fine fuels on which wildfire had previously fed. Fire suppression only enhanced the density of fuels, as tree and brush saplings that would have once been snuffed out by fires, or prevented from sprouting at all by the densely rooted grass, took hold and spread. This left us with fuel loads orders of magnitude beyond historical norms. Seared by drought, a sick and unnatural forest was perfectly primed to go up in a giant plume of smoke.There is a saying among some of my colleagues in the wildfire community: that during the 20th century, despite our phenomenal success in suppressing fires on public land, we were not so much putting out fires as putting them off. Not any longer. Especially amid the effects of climate change, the days of putting off fires are over. But if I've learned anything in my decade of quiet mountain-watching, it is that fire is as much a creative as a destructive force, and from amid the blackened stumps the forest will renew itself once more. What kind of forest we will have is uncertain. Will we follow the prescription of the ranchers and loggers and their minions in Congress, and turn loose the cows and the chainsaws, repeating the mistakes that brought us here in the first place? Or will we learn some humility, recognise that we live in a fire-adapted ecosystem, and allow the land to follow its own, sometimes fiery course to recovery?The answers to these questions will determine the character of the fires next time.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Wildfires", "Deforestation", "US news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "How humans added fuel to the wildfires of New Mexico | Philip Connors"},{"date": "2011-08-26T20:27:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": " Until recently, Monterrey was seen by the rest of Mexico as an oasis of prosperity and peace amid the violence of the country's drug wars. But this week's attack on a casino, in which at least 52 people died, was a reminder that nowhere is safe.The victims, mostly women, died after armed men set fire to the Casino Royale, which was filled with gamblers and staff, on Thursday. Rescue workers were continuing to search the remains of the two-storey building for bodies on Friday.Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, declared three days of national mourning during a televised address in which he called on Mexicans to unite behind his government's controversial offensive against the drug cartels, which has coincided with a dramatic escalation of violence around the country.\"We are confronting true terrorists,\" Calder\u00f3n said. \"We have to combat them with more force. They cannot be the owners of our streets, our cities and our future.\"He also laid part of the blame for what he called \"the tragedy we are living in Mexico\" on the failure of the US to control its drug consumption and prevent Mexican cartels from easily replenishing their arsenals across the border. \"We are neighbours, we are allies and we are friends \u2013 but you are also responsible,\" the visibly angry president said.A surveillance camera outside the casino filmed a Mini Cooper, followed by two larger cars, stopping by the building at 3.40pm on Thursday.Armed men rushed in, carrying containers of what the authorities say was probably petrol. The video shows the convoy driving away at the same time as customers and workers ran from the scene just as black smoke billows into view.The attack on the casino is one of the worst atrocities so far in the drug wars, in which more than 40,000 people have been killed since the president launched a military-led crackdown on organised crime in December 2006. \"There was a time when people moved from the capital to Monterrey because they felt safer there,\" Jorge Chabat, a drugs analyst, said. \"Now they are looking to come back.\"Monterrey, the capital of the state of Nuevo Leon, is about 140 miles from Texas and is a hub for big business. The area has also long been attractive to traffickers as a strategic break in the journey for drugs going north and money and weapons flowing south.This all changed after burgeoning tensions between the Gulf cartel and their former enforcers, the Zetas, developed into a full-scale war that began in the north-eastern border state of Tamaulipas early last year and spread to Nuevo Leon.According to government figures, murders in Nuevo Leon jumped from 267 in 2009 to 828 in 2010. That record had already been surpassed by mid-June this year.The governor, Rodrigo Medina, told a press conference that police were investigating whether the attack on the Casino Royale had been revenge for unpaid protection money. He refused to elaborate on other possible lines of investigation or identify which criminal group was suspected of being behind the arson.Emergency services spokesman Reynaldo Ramos said 42 of the victims were women, and almost all the bodies were discovered inside the building's toilets.Further bodies were found in an office where it seems people sought refuge after running from the gunmen and failing to find open emergency exits.One survivor, who identified herself as Alejandra, said: she was near the entrance when the armed men entered and screamed at them to get out or die. \"I heard shots, but I didn't look back. We got out.\"The impact of the tragedy was further increased by the location of the gambling centrethat featured bingo and slot machines in a middle class area of the city.Previous attacks on obviously civilian populations have tended to focus on peasants, urban workers, drug addicts and other vulnerable sectors. Exactly a year ago, 72 mostly Central American migrants were killed at a ranch in Tamaulipas.Local business leaders were notably quiet in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy but, in recent times, have underlined their concern about the crumbling image and confidence of a city they once felt proud of.\"Nuevo Leon has been an example for the nation because of its drive, and it hurts us that today the state is associated with corruption and insecurity,\" Alsonso Garza Garza told La Cronica de Hoy, speaking just a day before the attack. \"This cannot get worse.\" It appears he was wrong.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news"], "title": "Mexico casino arson attack shows violence is spreading"},{"date": "2011-09-21T19:39:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When two trucks full of bodies were dumped during rush hour on a main road on the edge of the port city of Veracruz it underlined the way Mexico's drug wars are both qualitatively escalating and expanding to parts of the country that were previously peaceful.Gunmen left the 23 men and 12 women piled up in the vehicles and strewn across the tarmac at around 5.30pm on Tuesday while commuters watched. Some tweeted warnings to stay away from the area.State officials said many of the people whose semi-naked bodies were left lying face down with their hands tied behind their backs had been tortured and that most died from suffocation.The incident is one of the most shocking single events in the drug wars that have claimed the lives of 40,000 people since President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a military-led offensive against the country's drug cartels in December 2006 triggering an intensification of already rumbling violence.The violence was initially concentrated along the border region with the US as well in a couple of other more central hotspots, but it has spread to much of country as the number of massacres has increased.\"What we are seeing in Mexico is typical of a process of paramilitarisation in which different groups seek to wipe territories clean of their rivals,\" Edgardo Buscaglia, an expert in organised crime, told MVS Radio. \"The groups are fighting over 22 different illegal markets, not just drugs, and that produces \u2026 an orgy of violence.\"Until a few months ago the state and city of Veracruz, on the Gulf coast, were considered an unassailable stronghold of the Zetas cartel. A sharp rise in the number of killings, gun battles and disappearances has coincided with a change of state governor as well as an intensification of federal operations against the Zetas. This may have disrupted its operational capacity, making Veracruz more vulnerable to incursions by rivals.A message left beside the bodies found on Tuesday threatened to kill all Zetas and announced: \"There is a new owner of the turf.\" The message was signed GN, initially assumed to refer to Gente Nueva (New People), a name used elsewhere in Mexico by gunmen associated with the Sinaloa cartel.Some media reported that the massacre was ordered by the Sinaloa cartel, which has been fighting the Zetas since early 2010 in neighbouring states.Veracruz's attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar, insisted the message did not necessarily explain the massacre and might be \"a distraction\".\" He discounted the additional claim within it that the victims included some of the 32 prisoners who escaped from three jails in the state on Monday.Escobar said that all the victims identified so far had criminal records suggesting links to organised crime. \"There is nothing in this event that affects the civilian population.\"The Veracruz authorities are developing a reputation for clumsy efforts to minimise the impact of the violence. Earlier this month local prosecutors charged a male teacher and a grandmother with terrorism after they allegedly caused panic across the city by spreading unfounded rumours of attacks on schools through social media.Following an international outcry, and hours before the horrifically real discovery of the 35 bodies, local legislators changed the law so the two twitterros, as Twitter users in Mexico are called, could be charged with disrupting public order instead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "World news"], "title": "Gunmen slaughter 35 as drug wars spread across Mexico"},{"date": "2011-09-12T11:26:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month a journalist in Mexico City called on motorists to squash cyclists and rid the city of a plague.The outburst from Angel Verdugo, who has since lost his job, prompted a group of around 220 cyclists to gather at the foot of El Angel de la Independencia, one of Mexico City's famous landmarks and a meeting point for demonstrations.Cyclists regarded his comments as tasteless given the current climate of violence in Mexico. \"He wanted two groups of citizens to fight each other,\" said Jesus Martin Gomez, president of the Commission of Urban Cycling in Mexico City. \"Mexico does not need more bloodshed,\" he stated. \"This gathering is to show the press we are against incitements to violence.\"The demonstration, organised through Facebook and attended by members of various cycling groups, also aimed to raise awareness of the difficulties cyclists in Mexico City face. One of their main objectives is to be safer when out cycling.The city has become more cycle-friendly in the last few years with the introduction of abike hire scheme and more cycle lanes, but cyclists say that it is not enough. One thing they are pushing for is better infrastructure for both bikers and pedestrians, meaning more cycle paths and better signposting. Jordi Melendez, one of the event organisers, explained that cyclists are marginalised when it comes to road use. \"Our aim is clear,\" he stated. \"The street is a public area and there is plenty of space for everyone.\"Neil Steinman, a German living in Mexico City, has been sharing road space with Mexican drivers for the past six years. He says he finds them more aggressive than German motorists. \"In Germany motorists are more used to cyclists,\" he said. \"They respect them a bit more.\" He said cycling around the city was almost impossible when he first arrived. \"There has been big advance in the last years.\"Aggression from drivers is not the only problem. Gomez complains that many motorists do not know the rules of the road because they are not made to sit a driving exam before getting their licence. Gomez is in the process of forming a new cycling commission, which aims to push politicians for changes in legislation. What cyclists in this city want, according to Gomez, \"Is that clear laws are established with regards to cycling.\"The organisation is also asking for changes in how the city's transportation budget is spent, asking that 5% of government transport funding be set aside for cycling. Part of this budget would be put towards campaigns educating people on road awareness. Something which Mexico is sorely in need of, according to Gomez. \"When pedestrians go to cross the road here, drivers speed up,\" he stated. \"We do not have a culture of road awareness.\"It is not only current cyclists who would benefit from the improvements. Isabel Le\u00f3n, professional cyclist and Mexico world champion, believes better legislation would create more cyclists. Mexico is currently suffering an obesity problem. \"Mexico needs its people to be more active,\" she stated. Cycling, she explains, brings many benefits, \"Not only in terms of physical health, but also it makes people healthier mentally.\"At the protest, with much ringing of bells and whistling, the group of cyclists got ready to ride in protest to the radio station of the disgraced journalist to hand in a letter of protest. Melendez is pleased with the turnout. \"The violence that Mexico is suffering now can be combated using many different strategies,\" he explained. \"One of these is the reclaiming of public spaces.\" In the long term he has hope for the future of cycling in the city. \"We are many and we feel that we can create change in a creative way.\"\u2022 Ela Stapley is a freelance journalist based in Mexico", "tags": ["Cycling", "Life and style", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City cyclists rally to reclaim the streets | Ela Stapley"},{"date": "2011-09-04T22:12:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A man and a woman are facing 30-year prison terms in Mexico for allegedly using Twitter to spread panic over a series of child kidnappings.Gilberto Martinez Vera, 48, a private school teacher, and Maria de Jesus Bravo Pagola, a radio presenter, were accused of spreading false reports that gunmen were attacking schools in the south-eastern city of Veracruz.The resulting panic caused dozens of car crashes after parents rushed to save their children from schools across the city and jammed emergency telephone lines, which \"totally collapsed\" under the pressure.Gerardo Buganza, the interior secretary for Veracruz state, compared the ensuing chaos to Orson Welles's spoof news broadcast War of the Worlds in 1938. The two are facing charges under terrorism laws.\"There were 26 car accidents, or people left their cars in the middle of the streets to run and pick up their children, because they thought these things were occurring at their kids' schools,\" Buganza said.The charges, which said that phone lines \"totally collapsed because people were terrified\" are the most serious charges to come from using Twitter to incite violence or chaos.Last month in the UK, Jordan Blackshaw, 20, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were both sentenced to four years in prison for inciting people to riot in the Manchester area. Despite setting up an event called Smash Down in Northwich Town on Facebook, only Blackshaw and the police, who were monitoring the page, turned up at a designated meeting spot.The false reports in Mexico followed general unease over recent drug gang violence in the city. In one reported incident a gunman tossed a grenade near a tourist attraction, killing one tourist. Tensions were also raised after armed convoys of marines were drafted on to the streets in August.Prosecutors allege that Vera then posted numerous messages on Twitter saying gunmen were kidnapping children from local schools. In one message he is said to have tweeted: \"My sister-in-law just called me all upset, they just kidnapped five children from the school.\"Other tweets included a story about six teenagers who were run over in one neighbourhood but although prosecutors acknowledge the incident happened, they said it did not involve any children.Pagola, who also styled herself a \"TwitTerrorist\" on the Facebook website, is accused of spreading rumours of child kidnapping using the social network \u2013 a charge she denies. Lawyers for both defendants have argued that both were repeating rumours they had already seen on the internet.Speaking through her lawyer, Pagola said: \"How can they possibly do this to me, for re-tweeting a message? I mean, it's 140 characters. It's not logical.\"Amnesty International accused officials of violating freedom of expression and instead blamed the panic on the city drug wars, in which 35,000 people are believed to have been killed in five years and which has seen people turning to social networks for information \u2013 both true and false.Amnesty said: \"The lack of safety creates an atmosphere of mistrust in which rumours that circulate on social networks are part of people's efforts to protect themselves, since there is very little trustworthy information.\"Raul Trejo, a Mexican media expert, said that while the terrorism charge was unwarranted, the actions of Vera and Pagola were \"a very incautious use of Twitter.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Media"], "title": "'Twitter terrorists' face 30 years after being charged in Mexico"},{"date": "2011-08-26T12:30:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "This year marked my tenth summer in the same fire tower, watching over a swath of the Gila National Forest in south-west New Mexico, where every year hundreds of lightning-caused wildfires erupt on the landscape. When people ask me what, precisely, I do there, the simplest answer I can offer is that I'm paid to watch mountains all day. If a wisp of smoke arises, I use my two-way radio to call a dispatcher and sound the alarm. Sometimes the fires are fought, sometimes they are allowed to burn, depending on a murky calculation of \"values at risk\" versus \"benefit to forest resources\". From the beginning of May to the middle of August this year, I spotted six fires, fewer than one for every 10 days I spent in my lookout tower. For most of the summer, then, my time was my own and so were the moods of the mountain. No television. No internet connection. No telephone. Five miles from the nearest road.Sheer bliss, in another words. For a little while.For much of this summer the mood of the mountain was severe. A vicious winter drought had seared the American south-west, and in May and June the wind blew fiercely, sometimes gusting above 60 miles an hour. Off to my west a hundred miles or so, on the other side of the state line, giant wildfires raged, filling my horizon with smoke. On certain days it appeared that the entire state of Arizona was engulfed in flames. The Wallow Fire, now on record as the largest wildfire in Arizona history, burned more than 800 square miles and crossed into New Mexico on its eastern front. The sunsets were apocalyptic.And then, as they do most years in July, the rains came and put an end to the burning. Instead of flames and smoke, the dangers turned to runoff and flooding, as thunderstorms dropped heavy rain on country where the grass and trees had burned away, exposing naked topsoil. Another danger arose in the form of opportunists and ideologues. Politicians arranged for public meetings to castigate the US Forest Service for mismanaging the forests. They joined with the logging and grazing interests to propose that chainsaws and cows could prevent large fires in the future, if only the loggers and ranchers were given a free hand to do as they pleased on public land owned by all Americans.The irony was delicious, for if you talk to scientists, they will tell you it is precisely logging and grazing \u2013 as well as a century of rabid fire suppression \u2013 that have brought us the spectacle of huge, unstoppable fires in the forests of the American southwest. As recently as the 19th century, the fire regime on these lands consisted of frequent (we're talking twice or more per decade) low-intensity surface fires moving mainly through grass, preserving the widely-spaced trees of the old-growth forest. Ponderosa pines, in particular, were perfectly adapted to withstand such fires. Their thick, fire-resistant bark, coupled with their evolutionary habit of dropping lower limbs as they grow, made them hardy survivors in a fire-prone ecosystem. Then the cutting and the grazing began. Second-growth forest grew back in denser stands, in part because voracious cattle had skinned away the grass, removing the fine fuels on which wildfire had previously fed. Fire suppression only enhanced the density of fuels, as tree and brush saplings that would have once been snuffed out by fires, or prevented from sprouting at all by the densely rooted grass, took hold and spread. This left us with fuel loads orders of magnitude beyond historical norms. Seared by drought, a sick and unnatural forest was perfectly primed to go up in a giant plume of smoke.There is a saying among some of my colleagues in the wildfire community: that during the 20th century, despite our phenomenal success in suppressing fires on public land, we were not so much putting out fires as putting them off. Not any longer. Especially amid the effects of climate change, the days of putting off fires are over. But if I've learned anything in my decade of quiet mountain-watching, it is that fire is as much a creative as a destructive force, and from amid the blackened stumps the forest will renew itself once more. What kind of forest we will have is uncertain. Will we follow the prescription of the ranchers and loggers and their minions in Congress, and turn loose the cows and the chainsaws, repeating the mistakes that brought us here in the first place? Or will we learn some humility, recognise that we live in a fire-adapted ecosystem, and allow the land to follow its own, sometimes fiery course to recovery?The answers to these questions will determine the character of the fires next time.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Wildfires", "Deforestation", "US news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "How humans added fuel to the wildfires of New Mexico | Philip Connors"},{"date": "2011-08-26T20:27:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": " Until recently, Monterrey was seen by the rest of Mexico as an oasis of prosperity and peace amid the violence of the country's drug wars. But this week's attack on a casino, in which at least 52 people died, was a reminder that nowhere is safe.The victims, mostly women, died after armed men set fire to the Casino Royale, which was filled with gamblers and staff, on Thursday. Rescue workers were continuing to search the remains of the two-storey building for bodies on Friday.Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, declared three days of national mourning during a televised address in which he called on Mexicans to unite behind his government's controversial offensive against the drug cartels, which has coincided with a dramatic escalation of violence around the country.\"We are confronting true terrorists,\" Calder\u00f3n said. \"We have to combat them with more force. They cannot be the owners of our streets, our cities and our future.\"He also laid part of the blame for what he called \"the tragedy we are living in Mexico\" on the failure of the US to control its drug consumption and prevent Mexican cartels from easily replenishing their arsenals across the border. \"We are neighbours, we are allies and we are friends \u2013 but you are also responsible,\" the visibly angry president said.A surveillance camera outside the casino filmed a Mini Cooper, followed by two larger cars, stopping by the building at 3.40pm on Thursday.Armed men rushed in, carrying containers of what the authorities say was probably petrol. The video shows the convoy driving away at the same time as customers and workers ran from the scene just as black smoke billows into view.The attack on the casino is one of the worst atrocities so far in the drug wars, in which more than 40,000 people have been killed since the president launched a military-led crackdown on organised crime in December 2006. \"There was a time when people moved from the capital to Monterrey because they felt safer there,\" Jorge Chabat, a drugs analyst, said. \"Now they are looking to come back.\"Monterrey, the capital of the state of Nuevo Leon, is about 140 miles from Texas and is a hub for big business. The area has also long been attractive to traffickers as a strategic break in the journey for drugs going north and money and weapons flowing south.This all changed after burgeoning tensions between the Gulf cartel and their former enforcers, the Zetas, developed into a full-scale war that began in the north-eastern border state of Tamaulipas early last year and spread to Nuevo Leon.According to government figures, murders in Nuevo Leon jumped from 267 in 2009 to 828 in 2010. That record had already been surpassed by mid-June this year.The governor, Rodrigo Medina, told a press conference that police were investigating whether the attack on the Casino Royale had been revenge for unpaid protection money. He refused to elaborate on other possible lines of investigation or identify which criminal group was suspected of being behind the arson.Emergency services spokesman Reynaldo Ramos said 42 of the victims were women, and almost all the bodies were discovered inside the building's toilets.Further bodies were found in an office where it seems people sought refuge after running from the gunmen and failing to find open emergency exits.One survivor, who identified herself as Alejandra, said: she was near the entrance when the armed men entered and screamed at them to get out or die. \"I heard shots, but I didn't look back. We got out.\"The impact of the tragedy was further increased by the location of the gambling centrethat featured bingo and slot machines in a middle class area of the city.Previous attacks on obviously civilian populations have tended to focus on peasants, urban workers, drug addicts and other vulnerable sectors. Exactly a year ago, 72 mostly Central American migrants were killed at a ranch in Tamaulipas.Local business leaders were notably quiet in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy but, in recent times, have underlined their concern about the crumbling image and confidence of a city they once felt proud of.\"Nuevo Leon has been an example for the nation because of its drive, and it hurts us that today the state is associated with corruption and insecurity,\" Alsonso Garza Garza told La Cronica de Hoy, speaking just a day before the attack. \"This cannot get worse.\" It appears he was wrong.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news"], "title": "Mexico casino arson attack shows violence is spreading"},{"date": "2011-07-07T18:50:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Of all the operators in Mexican politics, few have been so successful or controversial as teachers' union leader Elba Esther Gordillo. Now, some say, the end could be nigh for the woman known simply as La Maestra, or The Teacher.This week, the former head of the social security fund for state workers, and a onetime ally of Gordillo, publicly alleged that in February 2007 he refused her demand to be paid $2m a month from the fund, apparently to finance the activities of her allies' political party. \"Elba Esther's only interest in life is power and money,\" Miguel \u00c1ngel Yunes said. \"She is like a kind of King Midas. Everything she touches she corrupts.\"Gordillo described the accusation as \"rash, frivolous and slanderous\" in a written statement.But political analyst Ricardo Aleman pointed out that Yunes was close to President Felipe Calder\u00f3n, and said he believed the president was preparing an assault on Gordillo's power and reputedly fabulous wealth. \"This could be the beginning of an intense war against everything Gordillo stands for,\" Aleman told W Radio.La Maestra's power is rooted in the 1.5\u00a0million teachers who are members of the union she has controlled since 1989. In 2008 she was caught on camera buying the loyalty of regional union leaders with gifts of brand new Hummers. She is said to have a dozen luxury properties around the world, while the national newspaper Reforma said she was carrying a Herm\u00e8s handbag worth $5,500 last week and wearing shoes valued at $1,200.Gordillo, 66, also set up a political party in 2005 that has become notorious for obtaining privileges and key appointments in return of its support in elections. Last week she confirmed long standing speculation that she helped Calder\u00f3n obtain the narrow victory that made him president in 2006 as part of a deal that allowed her to put allies in the government, including Yunes. \"It is not something I am ashamed of,\" she said. \"I do politics.\"The recent allegations from Yunes, whose appointment to the social security institute was part of the deal, suggest the alliance with Calder\u00f3n is now definitively over, but some analysts are wary of predicting that the president will dare to go further and try to bring her down in the dying months of his administration.\"It would be like beating a wasps nest,\" said Jorge Zepeda Paterson, pointing out that the union could cause havoc by shutting down the nation's schools. \"The president doesn\u00b4t have the skill or the time to depose her more quietly.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news"], "title": "Scandal in Mexico erupts around union chief Elba Esther Gordillo"},{"date": "2011-11-25T22:45:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It had been a long drive: back roads and dirt trails, the ruins of grand haciendas and overgrown sisal plantations, villages of huts huddled around bone-white fortified churches. We got lost several times and our Spanish flummoxed the locals \u2013 if we could find anyone. Most were inside, snoozing in hammocks. The light turned golden and the heat was fuddled by dust. There were men on motorbikes carrying crude wooden cages filled with wild birds \u2013 red cardinals to sell in the towns \u2013 and there were flowering trees galore. I really could not see, however, how this place was going to be what had been promised: a world biodiversity hotspot. We were not in an Attenborough documentary at all, this was a Dylan song, with its cast of renegade priests, Mexican bandidos and doomed lovers.\"Will we see dolphins before dark?\" Maddy (eight) asked. Then, \"Can we swim with them? You said this was where loads of animals and birds live, but I can't see any.\" Life, someone once said to me, is about managing expectations. Travel and parenting, I could add, certainly are.We were approaching Celest\u00fan in Mexico, one of the precious zones of the globe where nature has spawned species with outrageous fecund glee: 17,000 vascular plants, 440 mammals, 500 freshwater fish, 1,240 reptiles and amphibians, and more than 1,120 birds. This is only one of 25 places in the world where nature went on an evolutionary rampage, spinning extraordinary numbers of species in a small area, according to scientists. The Mesoamerican hotspot straddles the isthmus and includes our location, Celest\u00fan biosphere reserve on the western coast of Mexico's Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. That this area is home to a staggering range of species is all the more remarkable because it is also a place that was once devastated by human greed.In the mid-19th century, the majority of the Yucat\u00e1n's rich forests were felled to make way for sisal plantations, a crop that produced fibre for gunny sacks. Sisal boomed. Fortunes were made, vast estates built up, a whole feudal Hispanic culture evolved. Then, with rising foreign competition and some serious revolts by the Mayan population, it was over. Plantations were abandoned and became overgrown. Birds and wildlife returned. Or so we had been led to believe.As the sun dipped and approached the horizon, we raced to the hotel and exploded out of the car desperate for a swim before nightfall, nodding briefly at the receptionist \u2013 \"Back in a minute\" \u2013 and ran to the ocean. We were absolutely alone, with the sun poised momentarily on the horizon. Maddy and I ran into the tranquil water, but my partner Sophie stayed on the beach. There was no one around, no one to pick up all the shells. We were waist-deep, splashing madly and Sophie was jumping up and down, waving her arms. I waved back. Sophie waved harder. She was mouthing something. I laughed and splashed Maddy. With the waves I couldn't make out what Sophie was saying. Why was she jumping up and down? And now she was shouting, very loudly and pointing, \"KEVIN! BIG FISH!\"I turned and saw the fin cruising behind me, only a few metres away. I turned back and grabbed Maddy, heaving her up out of the waist-deep water. \"Beach time.\"My heart was thumping. Maddy wriggled and fought. \"No! I don't want to.\" Then she saw the fin too, and the other one, now a stone's throw away. She went still.\"Are they really sharks, Daddy?\"And despite my adrenaline surge, I noticed the shape of the fin and the way it cut the water. I sighed. We had scared them and they were far away now.\"Dolphins.\"I set her down in the water and lost sight of them. Had they dived? It was too dark to tell. I felt a pang of regret: what we had wanted was right under our noses and we had failed to see it.When you cannot see what is right in front of you it is time to get a guide to point it out. We asked at our hotel, the idiosyncratic and wonderfully remote Ecopara\u00edso, and they said: \"A wildlife guide? Alex Dzib. He's the best. Lives down near the town of Celest\u00fan.\" We rang him up and booked him.The next day we spent beach-combing. There were no other guests at Ecopara\u00edso \u2013 a perplexing fact since it seemed to be a fabulous place. Jaime Garza, the manager was rueful: \"Our clientele is mainly American and they have temporarily deserted Mexico because of the drugs wars. Not that we see any sign of those problems here.\" It seemed painfully ironic that drug wars caused Americans to turn their noses up at Mexico, the same noses where all the drugs go.For Ecopara\u00edso it is a great shame since this hotel manages to be both luxurious and genuinely green, a difficult trick to achieve. They were keen to show me where the poo went, a vital part of the equation since a change in the water table can be disastrous for this coastal ecosystem. We made use of the solar-heated pool and admired the resident iguanas. Although the building of the hotel inside a biosphere reserve aroused much controversy, the result is that many birds have found a safe home within its grounds: safety from poachers who hunt the more colourful specimens and take them off to market for sale.Next morning at dawn we were in a dry forest a few miles away with Alex. He is short and rotund and very jovial \u2013 a sort of Mexican Bill Oddie \u2013 who entertained Maddy relentlessly. The dawn was hazy and Alex kept apologising for absent friends between a barrage of whistles, hoots, trills and caws. Alex could do every bird we couldn't see. \"We should spot the ferruginous pygmy owl \u2013 imagine an owl the size of a tennis ball \u2026 but he's not here.\"Looking down at the patch of mud, Alex grinned. \"Hey, look at this!\" He was squatting down, pointing to some tracks, \"Opossum prints.\"We gather around, dutifully interested. \"I know,\" admitted Alex, \"the opossum is not here either \u2013 but we're still early.\" The early morning air was heavy, and nothing, apart from ourselves, moved. A few half-remembered lines of Henry Reed's second world war poem Naming of Parts ran through my head: \"Today we have naming of parts \u2026 which in our case we have not got.\" I was tempted to enquire if all the much-vaunted species had stayed away along with the American tourists.Then, just as the sun finally tore aside the curtains of mist, things burst into life. \"Altamira oriole, ladder-backed woodpecker, vermilion flycatcher, Carnivet's emerald hummingbird, turquoise-browed motmot \u2026 \" The pace of birds became surprising, then astonishing, then ridiculous. I couldn't write the names down fast enough. \"Don't worry, we'll go through them in the book later.\"Alex was chucking his spotting scope around like a gunfighter wields a Colt 45. He'd see the bird before it moved and have that scope on it in milliseconds, ready for us lesser mortals. The man was a prodigy. \"My father was a fisherman who knew a bit about birds here \u2013 before anyone came looking for them. Then a National Geographic film crew turned up. They'd heard it was an amazing birding spot and they needed a local guide. I was a kid and I went along.\" Alex never looked back. If there was a world title for bird guide, I'd award it to him. Between spotting new species, he was keeping Maddy riveted with tales of unbelievably nasty insects. Her favourite was the ichneumon wasp that lays an egg in your arm, which then hatches, digs deeper, pupates and sends up a breathing hole. The only way to get it out, Alex assured her, is to tie a piece of fresh meat over the hole and tempt it out. \"Does it hurt?\" asked\u00a0Maddy.He showed her a scar on his arm. \"It did last time I had one.\"And then, Alex gave a little whistle of delight and thrust my head to the scope in time to spot a bundle of feathers: the ferruginous pygmy owl, or as I preferred, tennis ball owl, staring directly back at me.After that excitement we headed back to the town of Celest\u00fan and jumped aboard a boat, cruising across the bay spotting dolphins \u2013 easy when you have Alex on board to point out that they are often found under the soaring shapes of frigate birds. We were aiming for the one bird sight that all tourists here never miss: the flamingos. You don't need a bird guide to spot them \u2013 there are tens of thousands \u2013 but after we had enjoyed the sight of so many pink, long-legged creatures, we were landing at a small wooden quayside. \"Hammock forest,\" announced Alex. \"This is special. Go slowly and quietly.\"The boardwalk led us deeper into the flooded forest. Huge fish, tarpons, basked in the shallows. A bare-throated tiger heron stood motionless a few metres away. An American pygmy kingfisher perched within touching distance, its eyes sparkling in a shaft of sunshine. We watched it for a long time and then, with a brief whirr of wings, it was gone. A shadow briefly passed across me and I glanced up in time to catch sight of an osprey gliding overhead. \"85% of our ospreys are migratory,\" whispered Alex. Apart from anecdotes, scary stories and sheer, unadulterated enthusiasm, he could also marshall an impressive battery of statistics. \"That was a female \u2013 60% of our ospreys are female.\"Back at the dock we said goodbye, reluctantly, to Alex. I still had the feeling we were wandering through a Dylan song, but there was a new character to add to Bob's usual repertoire of Mexican desperadoes and renegade priests: the hotshot birdwatching guide.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Birds", "Biodiversity", "Conservation"], "title": "Birdwatching in Yucat\u00e1n, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-11-25T22:45:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It had been a long drive: back roads and dirt trails, the ruins of grand haciendas and overgrown sisal plantations, villages of huts huddled around bone-white fortified churches. We got lost several times and our Spanish flummoxed the locals \u2013 if we could find anyone. Most were inside, snoozing in hammocks. The light turned golden and the heat was fuddled by dust. There were men on motorbikes carrying crude wooden cages filled with wild birds \u2013 red cardinals to sell in the towns \u2013 and there were flowering trees galore. I really could not see, however, how this place was going to be what had been promised: a world biodiversity hotspot. We were not in an Attenborough documentary at all, this was a Dylan song, with its cast of renegade priests, Mexican bandidos and doomed lovers.\"Will we see dolphins before dark?\" Maddy (eight) asked. Then, \"Can we swim with them? You said this was where loads of animals and birds live, but I can't see any.\" Life, someone once said to me, is about managing expectations. Travel and parenting, I could add, certainly are.We were approaching Celest\u00fan in Mexico, one of the precious zones of the globe where nature has spawned species with outrageous fecund glee: 17,000 vascular plants, 440 mammals, 500 freshwater fish, 1,240 reptiles and amphibians, and more than 1,120 birds. This is only one of 25 places in the world where nature went on an evolutionary rampage, spinning extraordinary numbers of species in a small area, according to scientists. The Mesoamerican hotspot straddles the isthmus and includes our location, Celest\u00fan biosphere reserve on the western coast of Mexico's Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. That this area is home to a staggering range of species is all the more remarkable because it is also a place that was once devastated by human greed.In the mid-19th century, the majority of the Yucat\u00e1n's rich forests were felled to make way for sisal plantations, a crop that produced fibre for gunny sacks. Sisal boomed. Fortunes were made, vast estates built up, a whole feudal Hispanic culture evolved. Then, with rising foreign competition and some serious revolts by the Mayan population, it was over. Plantations were abandoned and became overgrown. Birds and wildlife returned. Or so we had been led to believe.As the sun dipped and approached the horizon, we raced to the hotel and exploded out of the car desperate for a swim before nightfall, nodding briefly at the receptionist \u2013 \"Back in a minute\" \u2013 and ran to the ocean. We were absolutely alone, with the sun poised momentarily on the horizon. Maddy and I ran into the tranquil water, but my partner Sophie stayed on the beach. There was no one around, no one to pick up all the shells. We were waist-deep, splashing madly and Sophie was jumping up and down, waving her arms. I waved back. Sophie waved harder. She was mouthing something. I laughed and splashed Maddy. With the waves I couldn't make out what Sophie was saying. Why was she jumping up and down? And now she was shouting, very loudly and pointing, \"KEVIN! BIG FISH!\"I turned and saw the fin cruising behind me, only a few metres away. I turned back and grabbed Maddy, heaving her up out of the waist-deep water. \"Beach time.\"My heart was thumping. Maddy wriggled and fought. \"No! I don't want to.\" Then she saw the fin too, and the other one, now a stone's throw away. She went still.\"Are they really sharks, Daddy?\"And despite my adrenaline surge, I noticed the shape of the fin and the way it cut the water. I sighed. We had scared them and they were far away now.\"Dolphins.\"I set her down in the water and lost sight of them. Had they dived? It was too dark to tell. I felt a pang of regret: what we had wanted was right under our noses and we had failed to see it.When you cannot see what is right in front of you it is time to get a guide to point it out. We asked at our hotel, the idiosyncratic and wonderfully remote Ecopara\u00edso, and they said: \"A wildlife guide? Alex Dzib. He's the best. Lives down near the town of Celest\u00fan.\" We rang him up and booked him.The next day we spent beach-combing. There were no other guests at Ecopara\u00edso \u2013 a perplexing fact since it seemed to be a fabulous place. Jaime Garza, the manager was rueful: \"Our clientele is mainly American and they have temporarily deserted Mexico because of the drugs wars. Not that we see any sign of those problems here.\" It seemed painfully ironic that drug wars caused Americans to turn their noses up at Mexico, the same noses where all the drugs go.For Ecopara\u00edso it is a great shame since this hotel manages to be both luxurious and genuinely green, a difficult trick to achieve. They were keen to show me where the poo went, a vital part of the equation since a change in the water table can be disastrous for this coastal ecosystem. We made use of the solar-heated pool and admired the resident iguanas. Although the building of the hotel inside a biosphere reserve aroused much controversy, the result is that many birds have found a safe home within its grounds: safety from poachers who hunt the more colourful specimens and take them off to market for sale.Next morning at dawn we were in a dry forest a few miles away with Alex. He is short and rotund and very jovial \u2013 a sort of Mexican Bill Oddie \u2013 who entertained Maddy relentlessly. The dawn was hazy and Alex kept apologising for absent friends between a barrage of whistles, hoots, trills and caws. Alex could do every bird we couldn't see. \"We should spot the ferruginous pygmy owl \u2013 imagine an owl the size of a tennis ball \u2026 but he's not here.\"Looking down at the patch of mud, Alex grinned. \"Hey, look at this!\" He was squatting down, pointing to some tracks, \"Opossum prints.\"We gather around, dutifully interested. \"I know,\" admitted Alex, \"the opossum is not here either \u2013 but we're still early.\" The early morning air was heavy, and nothing, apart from ourselves, moved. A few half-remembered lines of Henry Reed's second world war poem Naming of Parts ran through my head: \"Today we have naming of parts \u2026 which in our case we have not got.\" I was tempted to enquire if all the much-vaunted species had stayed away along with the American tourists.Then, just as the sun finally tore aside the curtains of mist, things burst into life. \"Altamira oriole, ladder-backed woodpecker, vermilion flycatcher, Carnivet's emerald hummingbird, turquoise-browed motmot \u2026 \" The pace of birds became surprising, then astonishing, then ridiculous. I couldn't write the names down fast enough. \"Don't worry, we'll go through them in the book later.\"Alex was chucking his spotting scope around like a gunfighter wields a Colt 45. He'd see the bird before it moved and have that scope on it in milliseconds, ready for us lesser mortals. The man was a prodigy. \"My father was a fisherman who knew a bit about birds here \u2013 before anyone came looking for them. Then a National Geographic film crew turned up. They'd heard it was an amazing birding spot and they needed a local guide. I was a kid and I went along.\" Alex never looked back. If there was a world title for bird guide, I'd award it to him. Between spotting new species, he was keeping Maddy riveted with tales of unbelievably nasty insects. Her favourite was the ichneumon wasp that lays an egg in your arm, which then hatches, digs deeper, pupates and sends up a breathing hole. The only way to get it out, Alex assured her, is to tie a piece of fresh meat over the hole and tempt it out. \"Does it hurt?\" asked\u00a0Maddy.He showed her a scar on his arm. \"It did last time I had one.\"And then, Alex gave a little whistle of delight and thrust my head to the scope in time to spot a bundle of feathers: the ferruginous pygmy owl, or as I preferred, tennis ball owl, staring directly back at me.After that excitement we headed back to the town of Celest\u00fan and jumped aboard a boat, cruising across the bay spotting dolphins \u2013 easy when you have Alex on board to point out that they are often found under the soaring shapes of frigate birds. We were aiming for the one bird sight that all tourists here never miss: the flamingos. You don't need a bird guide to spot them \u2013 there are tens of thousands \u2013 but after we had enjoyed the sight of so many pink, long-legged creatures, we were landing at a small wooden quayside. \"Hammock forest,\" announced Alex. \"This is special. Go slowly and quietly.\"The boardwalk led us deeper into the flooded forest. Huge fish, tarpons, basked in the shallows. A bare-throated tiger heron stood motionless a few metres away. An American pygmy kingfisher perched within touching distance, its eyes sparkling in a shaft of sunshine. We watched it for a long time and then, with a brief whirr of wings, it was gone. A shadow briefly passed across me and I glanced up in time to catch sight of an osprey gliding overhead. \"85% of our ospreys are migratory,\" whispered Alex. Apart from anecdotes, scary stories and sheer, unadulterated enthusiasm, he could also marshall an impressive battery of statistics. \"That was a female \u2013 60% of our ospreys are female.\"Back at the dock we said goodbye, reluctantly, to Alex. I still had the feeling we were wandering through a Dylan song, but there was a new character to add to Bob's usual repertoire of Mexican desperadoes and renegade priests: the hotshot birdwatching guide.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Birds", "Biodiversity", "Conservation"], "title": "Birdwatching in Yucat\u00e1n, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-11-02T12:11:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Plans by the hacker collective Anonymous to expose collaborators with Mexico's bloody Zetas drug cartel \u2013 a project it dubbed \"#OpCartel\" \u2013 have fallen into disarray, with some retreating from the idea of confronting the killers while others say that the kidnap of an Anonymous hacker, the incident meant to have spawned the scheme, never happened.The apparent climbdown by the group came as one security company, Stratfor, claimed that the cartel was hiring its own security experts to track the hackers down \u2013 which could have resulted in \"abduction, injury and death\" for anyone it traced.Two hacker members of \"Operation Cartel\", which said earlier this week that it would expose members of the murderous cartel, have now indicated that they are stopping their scheme to identify collaborators and members because they don't want anyone to be killed as a result.Stratfor had warned on 28 October that there could be disastrous results from the plan: \"Loss of life will be a certain consequence if Anonymous releases the identities of individuals cooperating with cartels. The validity of the information Anonymous has threatened to reveal is uncertain, as it might not have been vetted. This could pose an indiscriminate danger to individuals mentioned in whatever Anonymous decides to release.\"The threat from the cartel had already worried some Anonymous members. The collective has no formal organisational structure; it exists through hundreds of members who communicate through chatrooms. Plans for attacks tend to float up through the discussions in the chatrooms, and can be carried out by a few or a few thousand participants, depending on the support ideas receive. Thus there was widespread support among participants for \"Operation Payback\", a series of attacks on PayPal, Mastercard and Amazon earlier this year after they blocked financing for \u2013 or, in Amazon's case ceased, hosting of \u2013 the Wikileaks website. But it is unclear how widespread support is within Anonymous for the original plan to expose \"collaborators\" \u2013 allegedly including police, taxi drivers and journalists \u2013 who work with the Zetas.The Zetas have shown that they can be ruthless if information about them is posted online: in September, police in the Mexican border city of Nuevo Laredo found a woman's decapitated body alongside a handwritten sign saying she was killed in retaliation for postings on a social networking site. The message was signed with a \"Z,\" the Zetas' trademark.Earlier that month, the bodies of a man and a woman were found hanging from an overpass in Nuevo Laredo with a message threatening, \"this is what will happen\" to troublemaking internet users.Some tweeters using the threat's #OpCartel hashtag said the whole idea is too dangerous to carry out.\"He denounced the op after safety concerns. He thought about it and saw it was too dangerous,\" posted a tweeter under the name GeneralSec. \"DragnDon\" tweeted back: \"The fear that surrounds this idea is astounding. Fairweather revolutionaries?\"But other hackers have also questioned the entire pretext for the planned exposure. The original video, which said that the hackers would begin releasing the data from 5 November, claimed that it was a reprisal for the kidnapping of an unidentified Anonymous member in the coastal city of Veracruz, an oil state on the Gulf of Mexico with a major port of the same name. Veracruz has seen a surge in drug violence in recent months in what authorities say is a battle between the Zetas drug cartel, which has controlled the territory for at least a year, and its rivals. Dozens of bodies have been discovered in recent weeks, including a 35-year-old dumped on a highway in rush-hour traffic in Boca del Rio city last month.However, a number of doubts have been raised over the claim of the original kidnapping. There is no police report filed to link to the original claim of a kidnap: \"Not one person can name the victim, the date or a witness,\" observed Mach2600 on Twitter.\"The tragedy that happened to the two bloggers had nothing to do with Anonymous. Sad, but [the kidnaps claims are] not them. The other kidnap victims are all accounted for in one fashion or another. None of whom were at PaperStorm.\"PaperStorm was an Anonymous-organised event in December and March that encouraged members to post paper flyers in their cities. The original video claimed the Anonymous member was taken \"when he was doing PaperStorm\". But no confirming evidence has appeared.With both their motivation and their motive looking shaky, some have also been questioning what Anonymous would have to aim at. \"The problem is, hack what? There are no drug cartel websites, that I know of, that would be hackable,\" said Raul Trejo, an expert on media and violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.Anonymous-style videos from Veracruz have been posted online for at least two months, but none before has drawn as much attention, and none of the others threatened violence, or promised to take on a drug cartel.\"What the video is announcing is not hacking, but rather much more violent acts,\" Trejo said.As the Zetas's actions show, any fears would be well-founded. \"Are we afraid? Clearly so. Do we fear for our lives? Obviously. Notwithstanding that, we think it is time to say 'enough,'\" according to a statement from the purported organisers posted on the website Anonymous IberoAmerica. \"We will go ahead with the operation, because people have asked us to.\"The movement, if it is one, may have more success than did the bloggers in Nuevo Laredo, who posted information on drug cartel shootouts and safe houses under online aliases. Somehow, and nobody has yet said how, the Zetas apparently found out their real identities.The Anonymous IberoAmerica website says it will form a \"special task force\" by invitation only to find out and publish information about cartel collaborators, a potentially deadly undertaking since rivals often kill identified members of the Zetas.The website even included a series of security steps, such as urging members to send messages through a proxy server, and never to identify themselves as part of Anonymous.The page also offers a supposedly secure widget to help protect users.So far only one act has been attributed to the group: It apparently created a website decorated with jack o' lanterns that accuses a former state prosecutor of being a Zeta.Perhaps the most telling detail is that the Anonymous IberoAmerica site is now soliciting anonymous tips on cartel collaborators. That suggests that, if the promised revelations materialise, they could be nothing more than common rumours or gossip sent in by tipsters or foes of those named.Note: updated quote from @GeneralSec to change from \"They said..\" to \"He said...\"", "tags": ["Anonymous", "Hacking", "Mexico", "Technology", "Drugs trade", "Internet", "Computing"], "title": "Anonymous retreats from Mexico drug cartel confrontation"},{"date": "2011-11-25T22:45:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It had been a long drive: back roads and dirt trails, the ruins of grand haciendas and overgrown sisal plantations, villages of huts huddled around bone-white fortified churches. We got lost several times and our Spanish flummoxed the locals \u2013 if we could find anyone. Most were inside, snoozing in hammocks. The light turned golden and the heat was fuddled by dust. There were men on motorbikes carrying crude wooden cages filled with wild birds \u2013 red cardinals to sell in the towns \u2013 and there were flowering trees galore. I really could not see, however, how this place was going to be what had been promised: a world biodiversity hotspot. We were not in an Attenborough documentary at all, this was a Dylan song, with its cast of renegade priests, Mexican bandidos and doomed lovers.\"Will we see dolphins before dark?\" Maddy (eight) asked. Then, \"Can we swim with them? You said this was where loads of animals and birds live, but I can't see any.\" Life, someone once said to me, is about managing expectations. Travel and parenting, I could add, certainly are.We were approaching Celest\u00fan in Mexico, one of the precious zones of the globe where nature has spawned species with outrageous fecund glee: 17,000 vascular plants, 440 mammals, 500 freshwater fish, 1,240 reptiles and amphibians, and more than 1,120 birds. This is only one of 25 places in the world where nature went on an evolutionary rampage, spinning extraordinary numbers of species in a small area, according to scientists. The Mesoamerican hotspot straddles the isthmus and includes our location, Celest\u00fan biosphere reserve on the western coast of Mexico's Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. That this area is home to a staggering range of species is all the more remarkable because it is also a place that was once devastated by human greed.In the mid-19th century, the majority of the Yucat\u00e1n's rich forests were felled to make way for sisal plantations, a crop that produced fibre for gunny sacks. Sisal boomed. Fortunes were made, vast estates built up, a whole feudal Hispanic culture evolved. Then, with rising foreign competition and some serious revolts by the Mayan population, it was over. Plantations were abandoned and became overgrown. Birds and wildlife returned. Or so we had been led to believe.As the sun dipped and approached the horizon, we raced to the hotel and exploded out of the car desperate for a swim before nightfall, nodding briefly at the receptionist \u2013 \"Back in a minute\" \u2013 and ran to the ocean. We were absolutely alone, with the sun poised momentarily on the horizon. Maddy and I ran into the tranquil water, but my partner Sophie stayed on the beach. There was no one around, no one to pick up all the shells. We were waist-deep, splashing madly and Sophie was jumping up and down, waving her arms. I waved back. Sophie waved harder. She was mouthing something. I laughed and splashed Maddy. With the waves I couldn't make out what Sophie was saying. Why was she jumping up and down? And now she was shouting, very loudly and pointing, \"KEVIN! BIG FISH!\"I turned and saw the fin cruising behind me, only a few metres away. I turned back and grabbed Maddy, heaving her up out of the waist-deep water. \"Beach time.\"My heart was thumping. Maddy wriggled and fought. \"No! I don't want to.\" Then she saw the fin too, and the other one, now a stone's throw away. She went still.\"Are they really sharks, Daddy?\"And despite my adrenaline surge, I noticed the shape of the fin and the way it cut the water. I sighed. We had scared them and they were far away now.\"Dolphins.\"I set her down in the water and lost sight of them. Had they dived? It was too dark to tell. I felt a pang of regret: what we had wanted was right under our noses and we had failed to see it.When you cannot see what is right in front of you it is time to get a guide to point it out. We asked at our hotel, the idiosyncratic and wonderfully remote Ecopara\u00edso, and they said: \"A wildlife guide? Alex Dzib. He's the best. Lives down near the town of Celest\u00fan.\" We rang him up and booked him.The next day we spent beach-combing. There were no other guests at Ecopara\u00edso \u2013 a perplexing fact since it seemed to be a fabulous place. Jaime Garza, the manager was rueful: \"Our clientele is mainly American and they have temporarily deserted Mexico because of the drugs wars. Not that we see any sign of those problems here.\" It seemed painfully ironic that drug wars caused Americans to turn their noses up at Mexico, the same noses where all the drugs go.For Ecopara\u00edso it is a great shame since this hotel manages to be both luxurious and genuinely green, a difficult trick to achieve. They were keen to show me where the poo went, a vital part of the equation since a change in the water table can be disastrous for this coastal ecosystem. We made use of the solar-heated pool and admired the resident iguanas. Although the building of the hotel inside a biosphere reserve aroused much controversy, the result is that many birds have found a safe home within its grounds: safety from poachers who hunt the more colourful specimens and take them off to market for sale.Next morning at dawn we were in a dry forest a few miles away with Alex. He is short and rotund and very jovial \u2013 a sort of Mexican Bill Oddie \u2013 who entertained Maddy relentlessly. The dawn was hazy and Alex kept apologising for absent friends between a barrage of whistles, hoots, trills and caws. Alex could do every bird we couldn't see. \"We should spot the ferruginous pygmy owl \u2013 imagine an owl the size of a tennis ball \u2026 but he's not here.\"Looking down at the patch of mud, Alex grinned. \"Hey, look at this!\" He was squatting down, pointing to some tracks, \"Opossum prints.\"We gather around, dutifully interested. \"I know,\" admitted Alex, \"the opossum is not here either \u2013 but we're still early.\" The early morning air was heavy, and nothing, apart from ourselves, moved. A few half-remembered lines of Henry Reed's second world war poem Naming of Parts ran through my head: \"Today we have naming of parts \u2026 which in our case we have not got.\" I was tempted to enquire if all the much-vaunted species had stayed away along with the American tourists.Then, just as the sun finally tore aside the curtains of mist, things burst into life. \"Altamira oriole, ladder-backed woodpecker, vermilion flycatcher, Carnivet's emerald hummingbird, turquoise-browed motmot \u2026 \" The pace of birds became surprising, then astonishing, then ridiculous. I couldn't write the names down fast enough. \"Don't worry, we'll go through them in the book later.\"Alex was chucking his spotting scope around like a gunfighter wields a Colt 45. He'd see the bird before it moved and have that scope on it in milliseconds, ready for us lesser mortals. The man was a prodigy. \"My father was a fisherman who knew a bit about birds here \u2013 before anyone came looking for them. Then a National Geographic film crew turned up. They'd heard it was an amazing birding spot and they needed a local guide. I was a kid and I went along.\" Alex never looked back. If there was a world title for bird guide, I'd award it to him. Between spotting new species, he was keeping Maddy riveted with tales of unbelievably nasty insects. Her favourite was the ichneumon wasp that lays an egg in your arm, which then hatches, digs deeper, pupates and sends up a breathing hole. The only way to get it out, Alex assured her, is to tie a piece of fresh meat over the hole and tempt it out. \"Does it hurt?\" asked\u00a0Maddy.He showed her a scar on his arm. \"It did last time I had one.\"And then, Alex gave a little whistle of delight and thrust my head to the scope in time to spot a bundle of feathers: the ferruginous pygmy owl, or as I preferred, tennis ball owl, staring directly back at me.After that excitement we headed back to the town of Celest\u00fan and jumped aboard a boat, cruising across the bay spotting dolphins \u2013 easy when you have Alex on board to point out that they are often found under the soaring shapes of frigate birds. We were aiming for the one bird sight that all tourists here never miss: the flamingos. You don't need a bird guide to spot them \u2013 there are tens of thousands \u2013 but after we had enjoyed the sight of so many pink, long-legged creatures, we were landing at a small wooden quayside. \"Hammock forest,\" announced Alex. \"This is special. Go slowly and quietly.\"The boardwalk led us deeper into the flooded forest. Huge fish, tarpons, basked in the shallows. A bare-throated tiger heron stood motionless a few metres away. An American pygmy kingfisher perched within touching distance, its eyes sparkling in a shaft of sunshine. We watched it for a long time and then, with a brief whirr of wings, it was gone. A shadow briefly passed across me and I glanced up in time to catch sight of an osprey gliding overhead. \"85% of our ospreys are migratory,\" whispered Alex. Apart from anecdotes, scary stories and sheer, unadulterated enthusiasm, he could also marshall an impressive battery of statistics. \"That was a female \u2013 60% of our ospreys are female.\"Back at the dock we said goodbye, reluctantly, to Alex. I still had the feeling we were wandering through a Dylan song, but there was a new character to add to Bob's usual repertoire of Mexican desperadoes and renegade priests: the hotshot birdwatching guide.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Birds", "Biodiversity", "Conservation"], "title": "Birdwatching in Yucat\u00e1n, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-11-02T12:11:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Plans by the hacker collective Anonymous to expose collaborators with Mexico's bloody Zetas drug cartel \u2013 a project it dubbed \"#OpCartel\" \u2013 have fallen into disarray, with some retreating from the idea of confronting the killers while others say that the kidnap of an Anonymous hacker, the incident meant to have spawned the scheme, never happened.The apparent climbdown by the group came as one security company, Stratfor, claimed that the cartel was hiring its own security experts to track the hackers down \u2013 which could have resulted in \"abduction, injury and death\" for anyone it traced.Two hacker members of \"Operation Cartel\", which said earlier this week that it would expose members of the murderous cartel, have now indicated that they are stopping their scheme to identify collaborators and members because they don't want anyone to be killed as a result.Stratfor had warned on 28 October that there could be disastrous results from the plan: \"Loss of life will be a certain consequence if Anonymous releases the identities of individuals cooperating with cartels. The validity of the information Anonymous has threatened to reveal is uncertain, as it might not have been vetted. This could pose an indiscriminate danger to individuals mentioned in whatever Anonymous decides to release.\"The threat from the cartel had already worried some Anonymous members. The collective has no formal organisational structure; it exists through hundreds of members who communicate through chatrooms. Plans for attacks tend to float up through the discussions in the chatrooms, and can be carried out by a few or a few thousand participants, depending on the support ideas receive. Thus there was widespread support among participants for \"Operation Payback\", a series of attacks on PayPal, Mastercard and Amazon earlier this year after they blocked financing for \u2013 or, in Amazon's case ceased, hosting of \u2013 the Wikileaks website. But it is unclear how widespread support is within Anonymous for the original plan to expose \"collaborators\" \u2013 allegedly including police, taxi drivers and journalists \u2013 who work with the Zetas.The Zetas have shown that they can be ruthless if information about them is posted online: in September, police in the Mexican border city of Nuevo Laredo found a woman's decapitated body alongside a handwritten sign saying she was killed in retaliation for postings on a social networking site. The message was signed with a \"Z,\" the Zetas' trademark.Earlier that month, the bodies of a man and a woman were found hanging from an overpass in Nuevo Laredo with a message threatening, \"this is what will happen\" to troublemaking internet users.Some tweeters using the threat's #OpCartel hashtag said the whole idea is too dangerous to carry out.\"He denounced the op after safety concerns. He thought about it and saw it was too dangerous,\" posted a tweeter under the name GeneralSec. \"DragnDon\" tweeted back: \"The fear that surrounds this idea is astounding. Fairweather revolutionaries?\"But other hackers have also questioned the entire pretext for the planned exposure. The original video, which said that the hackers would begin releasing the data from 5 November, claimed that it was a reprisal for the kidnapping of an unidentified Anonymous member in the coastal city of Veracruz, an oil state on the Gulf of Mexico with a major port of the same name. Veracruz has seen a surge in drug violence in recent months in what authorities say is a battle between the Zetas drug cartel, which has controlled the territory for at least a year, and its rivals. Dozens of bodies have been discovered in recent weeks, including a 35-year-old dumped on a highway in rush-hour traffic in Boca del Rio city last month.However, a number of doubts have been raised over the claim of the original kidnapping. There is no police report filed to link to the original claim of a kidnap: \"Not one person can name the victim, the date or a witness,\" observed Mach2600 on Twitter.\"The tragedy that happened to the two bloggers had nothing to do with Anonymous. Sad, but [the kidnaps claims are] not them. The other kidnap victims are all accounted for in one fashion or another. None of whom were at PaperStorm.\"PaperStorm was an Anonymous-organised event in December and March that encouraged members to post paper flyers in their cities. The original video claimed the Anonymous member was taken \"when he was doing PaperStorm\". But no confirming evidence has appeared.With both their motivation and their motive looking shaky, some have also been questioning what Anonymous would have to aim at. \"The problem is, hack what? There are no drug cartel websites, that I know of, that would be hackable,\" said Raul Trejo, an expert on media and violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.Anonymous-style videos from Veracruz have been posted online for at least two months, but none before has drawn as much attention, and none of the others threatened violence, or promised to take on a drug cartel.\"What the video is announcing is not hacking, but rather much more violent acts,\" Trejo said.As the Zetas's actions show, any fears would be well-founded. \"Are we afraid? Clearly so. Do we fear for our lives? Obviously. Notwithstanding that, we think it is time to say 'enough,'\" according to a statement from the purported organisers posted on the website Anonymous IberoAmerica. \"We will go ahead with the operation, because people have asked us to.\"The movement, if it is one, may have more success than did the bloggers in Nuevo Laredo, who posted information on drug cartel shootouts and safe houses under online aliases. Somehow, and nobody has yet said how, the Zetas apparently found out their real identities.The Anonymous IberoAmerica website says it will form a \"special task force\" by invitation only to find out and publish information about cartel collaborators, a potentially deadly undertaking since rivals often kill identified members of the Zetas.The website even included a series of security steps, such as urging members to send messages through a proxy server, and never to identify themselves as part of Anonymous.The page also offers a supposedly secure widget to help protect users.So far only one act has been attributed to the group: It apparently created a website decorated with jack o' lanterns that accuses a former state prosecutor of being a Zeta.Perhaps the most telling detail is that the Anonymous IberoAmerica site is now soliciting anonymous tips on cartel collaborators. That suggests that, if the promised revelations materialise, they could be nothing more than common rumours or gossip sent in by tipsters or foes of those named.Note: updated quote from @GeneralSec to change from \"They said..\" to \"He said...\"", "tags": ["Anonymous", "Hacking", "Mexico", "Technology", "Drugs trade", "Internet", "Computing"], "title": "Anonymous retreats from Mexico drug cartel confrontation"},{"date": "2011-12-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Asked when launching his book, Mexico: The Great Hope, at a literary festival, which were the three other books he'd say had changed his life, the presidential candidate was suddenly at a loss for words.After four minutes, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto managed to name the Bible, The Eagle's Throne, and, oh, a couple of best sellers by Jeffrey Archer. Except he mistakenly attributed the second book, a classic satire on Mexico's politics, to a historian and not novelist Carlos Fuentes; and, he hastily clarified, he had not read the good book entirely cover to cover.These faux pas by the Institutional Revolutionary party candidate, famous for his good looks and telenovela star wife, at the international literary festival in Guadalajara, left Mexico's social and mainstream media buzzing with mockery. In one photo montage Pe\u00f1a Nieto is chastised by the Pope for not reading all the holy work. \"The thing is, I don't remember who wrote it,\" his speech bubble replies.It looked a gift for his presidential rival, Ernesto Cordero, of the governing National Action party, who told a radio interviewer the gaffes raised \"serious doubts\" about the PRI candidate. Cordero then named his three books: Animal Farm and Alice in Wonderland, correctly attributed, and Isle of Passion by Colombian Isabel Restrepo. Oops, the novel is written by Laura Restrepo, suggesting he mixed her up with Isabel Allende.\"These politicians are all puffed up with power, and don't read anything,\" Mexican author Elena Poniatowska told the Guardian. \"At least they're now revealing their lack of culture for all to see.\"Pe\u00f1a Nieto tried contrition, thanking the \"critical and even funny\" responses. Then his daughter kept things ticking over by retweeting a comment on his critics: \"Hello to the bunch of wankers that come from the proletariat and only criticize those they envy\". More damage limitation. Pe\u00f1a Nieto had, he tweeted, \"had a talk with my children about respect and tolerance\".This comedy recalls President Vicente Fox's many cultural gaffes, one being his renaming of Argentina's literary giant, Jorge Luis Borges, as Borgues. And last year Fox tweeted congratulations to Mario Vargas Llosa for being the third Latin American to win the Nobel, with Borges and Octavio Paz. Borges never won the honour, even if he might have relished the joke.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 December 2011. The original referred to Argentinian author Jos\u00e9 Luis Borges. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "The Bible", "Books", "Culture", "Jeffrey Archer", "UK news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "Mexico mocks presidential candidate for literature festival faux pas"},{"date": "2011-11-25T22:45:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It had been a long drive: back roads and dirt trails, the ruins of grand haciendas and overgrown sisal plantations, villages of huts huddled around bone-white fortified churches. We got lost several times and our Spanish flummoxed the locals \u2013 if we could find anyone. Most were inside, snoozing in hammocks. The light turned golden and the heat was fuddled by dust. There were men on motorbikes carrying crude wooden cages filled with wild birds \u2013 red cardinals to sell in the towns \u2013 and there were flowering trees galore. I really could not see, however, how this place was going to be what had been promised: a world biodiversity hotspot. We were not in an Attenborough documentary at all, this was a Dylan song, with its cast of renegade priests, Mexican bandidos and doomed lovers.\"Will we see dolphins before dark?\" Maddy (eight) asked. Then, \"Can we swim with them? You said this was where loads of animals and birds live, but I can't see any.\" Life, someone once said to me, is about managing expectations. Travel and parenting, I could add, certainly are.We were approaching Celest\u00fan in Mexico, one of the precious zones of the globe where nature has spawned species with outrageous fecund glee: 17,000 vascular plants, 440 mammals, 500 freshwater fish, 1,240 reptiles and amphibians, and more than 1,120 birds. This is only one of 25 places in the world where nature went on an evolutionary rampage, spinning extraordinary numbers of species in a small area, according to scientists. The Mesoamerican hotspot straddles the isthmus and includes our location, Celest\u00fan biosphere reserve on the western coast of Mexico's Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. That this area is home to a staggering range of species is all the more remarkable because it is also a place that was once devastated by human greed.In the mid-19th century, the majority of the Yucat\u00e1n's rich forests were felled to make way for sisal plantations, a crop that produced fibre for gunny sacks. Sisal boomed. Fortunes were made, vast estates built up, a whole feudal Hispanic culture evolved. Then, with rising foreign competition and some serious revolts by the Mayan population, it was over. Plantations were abandoned and became overgrown. Birds and wildlife returned. Or so we had been led to believe.As the sun dipped and approached the horizon, we raced to the hotel and exploded out of the car desperate for a swim before nightfall, nodding briefly at the receptionist \u2013 \"Back in a minute\" \u2013 and ran to the ocean. We were absolutely alone, with the sun poised momentarily on the horizon. Maddy and I ran into the tranquil water, but my partner Sophie stayed on the beach. There was no one around, no one to pick up all the shells. We were waist-deep, splashing madly and Sophie was jumping up and down, waving her arms. I waved back. Sophie waved harder. She was mouthing something. I laughed and splashed Maddy. With the waves I couldn't make out what Sophie was saying. Why was she jumping up and down? And now she was shouting, very loudly and pointing, \"KEVIN! BIG FISH!\"I turned and saw the fin cruising behind me, only a few metres away. I turned back and grabbed Maddy, heaving her up out of the waist-deep water. \"Beach time.\"My heart was thumping. Maddy wriggled and fought. \"No! I don't want to.\" Then she saw the fin too, and the other one, now a stone's throw away. She went still.\"Are they really sharks, Daddy?\"And despite my adrenaline surge, I noticed the shape of the fin and the way it cut the water. I sighed. We had scared them and they were far away now.\"Dolphins.\"I set her down in the water and lost sight of them. Had they dived? It was too dark to tell. I felt a pang of regret: what we had wanted was right under our noses and we had failed to see it.When you cannot see what is right in front of you it is time to get a guide to point it out. We asked at our hotel, the idiosyncratic and wonderfully remote Ecopara\u00edso, and they said: \"A wildlife guide? Alex Dzib. He's the best. Lives down near the town of Celest\u00fan.\" We rang him up and booked him.The next day we spent beach-combing. There were no other guests at Ecopara\u00edso \u2013 a perplexing fact since it seemed to be a fabulous place. Jaime Garza, the manager was rueful: \"Our clientele is mainly American and they have temporarily deserted Mexico because of the drugs wars. Not that we see any sign of those problems here.\" It seemed painfully ironic that drug wars caused Americans to turn their noses up at Mexico, the same noses where all the drugs go.For Ecopara\u00edso it is a great shame since this hotel manages to be both luxurious and genuinely green, a difficult trick to achieve. They were keen to show me where the poo went, a vital part of the equation since a change in the water table can be disastrous for this coastal ecosystem. We made use of the solar-heated pool and admired the resident iguanas. Although the building of the hotel inside a biosphere reserve aroused much controversy, the result is that many birds have found a safe home within its grounds: safety from poachers who hunt the more colourful specimens and take them off to market for sale.Next morning at dawn we were in a dry forest a few miles away with Alex. He is short and rotund and very jovial \u2013 a sort of Mexican Bill Oddie \u2013 who entertained Maddy relentlessly. The dawn was hazy and Alex kept apologising for absent friends between a barrage of whistles, hoots, trills and caws. Alex could do every bird we couldn't see. \"We should spot the ferruginous pygmy owl \u2013 imagine an owl the size of a tennis ball \u2026 but he's not here.\"Looking down at the patch of mud, Alex grinned. \"Hey, look at this!\" He was squatting down, pointing to some tracks, \"Opossum prints.\"We gather around, dutifully interested. \"I know,\" admitted Alex, \"the opossum is not here either \u2013 but we're still early.\" The early morning air was heavy, and nothing, apart from ourselves, moved. A few half-remembered lines of Henry Reed's second world war poem Naming of Parts ran through my head: \"Today we have naming of parts \u2026 which in our case we have not got.\" I was tempted to enquire if all the much-vaunted species had stayed away along with the American tourists.Then, just as the sun finally tore aside the curtains of mist, things burst into life. \"Altamira oriole, ladder-backed woodpecker, vermilion flycatcher, Carnivet's emerald hummingbird, turquoise-browed motmot \u2026 \" The pace of birds became surprising, then astonishing, then ridiculous. I couldn't write the names down fast enough. \"Don't worry, we'll go through them in the book later.\"Alex was chucking his spotting scope around like a gunfighter wields a Colt 45. He'd see the bird before it moved and have that scope on it in milliseconds, ready for us lesser mortals. The man was a prodigy. \"My father was a fisherman who knew a bit about birds here \u2013 before anyone came looking for them. Then a National Geographic film crew turned up. They'd heard it was an amazing birding spot and they needed a local guide. I was a kid and I went along.\" Alex never looked back. If there was a world title for bird guide, I'd award it to him. Between spotting new species, he was keeping Maddy riveted with tales of unbelievably nasty insects. Her favourite was the ichneumon wasp that lays an egg in your arm, which then hatches, digs deeper, pupates and sends up a breathing hole. The only way to get it out, Alex assured her, is to tie a piece of fresh meat over the hole and tempt it out. \"Does it hurt?\" asked\u00a0Maddy.He showed her a scar on his arm. \"It did last time I had one.\"And then, Alex gave a little whistle of delight and thrust my head to the scope in time to spot a bundle of feathers: the ferruginous pygmy owl, or as I preferred, tennis ball owl, staring directly back at me.After that excitement we headed back to the town of Celest\u00fan and jumped aboard a boat, cruising across the bay spotting dolphins \u2013 easy when you have Alex on board to point out that they are often found under the soaring shapes of frigate birds. We were aiming for the one bird sight that all tourists here never miss: the flamingos. You don't need a bird guide to spot them \u2013 there are tens of thousands \u2013 but after we had enjoyed the sight of so many pink, long-legged creatures, we were landing at a small wooden quayside. \"Hammock forest,\" announced Alex. \"This is special. Go slowly and quietly.\"The boardwalk led us deeper into the flooded forest. Huge fish, tarpons, basked in the shallows. A bare-throated tiger heron stood motionless a few metres away. An American pygmy kingfisher perched within touching distance, its eyes sparkling in a shaft of sunshine. We watched it for a long time and then, with a brief whirr of wings, it was gone. A shadow briefly passed across me and I glanced up in time to catch sight of an osprey gliding overhead. \"85% of our ospreys are migratory,\" whispered Alex. Apart from anecdotes, scary stories and sheer, unadulterated enthusiasm, he could also marshall an impressive battery of statistics. \"That was a female \u2013 60% of our ospreys are female.\"Back at the dock we said goodbye, reluctantly, to Alex. I still had the feeling we were wandering through a Dylan song, but there was a new character to add to Bob's usual repertoire of Mexican desperadoes and renegade priests: the hotshot birdwatching guide.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Birds", "Biodiversity", "Conservation"], "title": "Birdwatching in Yucat\u00e1n, Mexico"},{"date": "2011-11-02T12:11:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Plans by the hacker collective Anonymous to expose collaborators with Mexico's bloody Zetas drug cartel \u2013 a project it dubbed \"#OpCartel\" \u2013 have fallen into disarray, with some retreating from the idea of confronting the killers while others say that the kidnap of an Anonymous hacker, the incident meant to have spawned the scheme, never happened.The apparent climbdown by the group came as one security company, Stratfor, claimed that the cartel was hiring its own security experts to track the hackers down \u2013 which could have resulted in \"abduction, injury and death\" for anyone it traced.Two hacker members of \"Operation Cartel\", which said earlier this week that it would expose members of the murderous cartel, have now indicated that they are stopping their scheme to identify collaborators and members because they don't want anyone to be killed as a result.Stratfor had warned on 28 October that there could be disastrous results from the plan: \"Loss of life will be a certain consequence if Anonymous releases the identities of individuals cooperating with cartels. The validity of the information Anonymous has threatened to reveal is uncertain, as it might not have been vetted. This could pose an indiscriminate danger to individuals mentioned in whatever Anonymous decides to release.\"The threat from the cartel had already worried some Anonymous members. The collective has no formal organisational structure; it exists through hundreds of members who communicate through chatrooms. Plans for attacks tend to float up through the discussions in the chatrooms, and can be carried out by a few or a few thousand participants, depending on the support ideas receive. Thus there was widespread support among participants for \"Operation Payback\", a series of attacks on PayPal, Mastercard and Amazon earlier this year after they blocked financing for \u2013 or, in Amazon's case ceased, hosting of \u2013 the Wikileaks website. But it is unclear how widespread support is within Anonymous for the original plan to expose \"collaborators\" \u2013 allegedly including police, taxi drivers and journalists \u2013 who work with the Zetas.The Zetas have shown that they can be ruthless if information about them is posted online: in September, police in the Mexican border city of Nuevo Laredo found a woman's decapitated body alongside a handwritten sign saying she was killed in retaliation for postings on a social networking site. The message was signed with a \"Z,\" the Zetas' trademark.Earlier that month, the bodies of a man and a woman were found hanging from an overpass in Nuevo Laredo with a message threatening, \"this is what will happen\" to troublemaking internet users.Some tweeters using the threat's #OpCartel hashtag said the whole idea is too dangerous to carry out.\"He denounced the op after safety concerns. He thought about it and saw it was too dangerous,\" posted a tweeter under the name GeneralSec. \"DragnDon\" tweeted back: \"The fear that surrounds this idea is astounding. Fairweather revolutionaries?\"But other hackers have also questioned the entire pretext for the planned exposure. The original video, which said that the hackers would begin releasing the data from 5 November, claimed that it was a reprisal for the kidnapping of an unidentified Anonymous member in the coastal city of Veracruz, an oil state on the Gulf of Mexico with a major port of the same name. Veracruz has seen a surge in drug violence in recent months in what authorities say is a battle between the Zetas drug cartel, which has controlled the territory for at least a year, and its rivals. Dozens of bodies have been discovered in recent weeks, including a 35-year-old dumped on a highway in rush-hour traffic in Boca del Rio city last month.However, a number of doubts have been raised over the claim of the original kidnapping. There is no police report filed to link to the original claim of a kidnap: \"Not one person can name the victim, the date or a witness,\" observed Mach2600 on Twitter.\"The tragedy that happened to the two bloggers had nothing to do with Anonymous. Sad, but [the kidnaps claims are] not them. The other kidnap victims are all accounted for in one fashion or another. None of whom were at PaperStorm.\"PaperStorm was an Anonymous-organised event in December and March that encouraged members to post paper flyers in their cities. The original video claimed the Anonymous member was taken \"when he was doing PaperStorm\". But no confirming evidence has appeared.With both their motivation and their motive looking shaky, some have also been questioning what Anonymous would have to aim at. \"The problem is, hack what? There are no drug cartel websites, that I know of, that would be hackable,\" said Raul Trejo, an expert on media and violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.Anonymous-style videos from Veracruz have been posted online for at least two months, but none before has drawn as much attention, and none of the others threatened violence, or promised to take on a drug cartel.\"What the video is announcing is not hacking, but rather much more violent acts,\" Trejo said.As the Zetas's actions show, any fears would be well-founded. \"Are we afraid? Clearly so. Do we fear for our lives? Obviously. Notwithstanding that, we think it is time to say 'enough,'\" according to a statement from the purported organisers posted on the website Anonymous IberoAmerica. \"We will go ahead with the operation, because people have asked us to.\"The movement, if it is one, may have more success than did the bloggers in Nuevo Laredo, who posted information on drug cartel shootouts and safe houses under online aliases. Somehow, and nobody has yet said how, the Zetas apparently found out their real identities.The Anonymous IberoAmerica website says it will form a \"special task force\" by invitation only to find out and publish information about cartel collaborators, a potentially deadly undertaking since rivals often kill identified members of the Zetas.The website even included a series of security steps, such as urging members to send messages through a proxy server, and never to identify themselves as part of Anonymous.The page also offers a supposedly secure widget to help protect users.So far only one act has been attributed to the group: It apparently created a website decorated with jack o' lanterns that accuses a former state prosecutor of being a Zeta.Perhaps the most telling detail is that the Anonymous IberoAmerica site is now soliciting anonymous tips on cartel collaborators. That suggests that, if the promised revelations materialise, they could be nothing more than common rumours or gossip sent in by tipsters or foes of those named.Note: updated quote from @GeneralSec to change from \"They said..\" to \"He said...\"", "tags": ["Anonymous", "Hacking", "Mexico", "Technology", "Drugs trade", "Internet", "Computing"], "title": "Anonymous retreats from Mexico drug cartel confrontation"},{"date": "2011-12-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Asked when launching his book, Mexico: The Great Hope, at a literary festival, which were the three other books he'd say had changed his life, the presidential candidate was suddenly at a loss for words.After four minutes, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto managed to name the Bible, The Eagle's Throne, and, oh, a couple of best sellers by Jeffrey Archer. Except he mistakenly attributed the second book, a classic satire on Mexico's politics, to a historian and not novelist Carlos Fuentes; and, he hastily clarified, he had not read the good book entirely cover to cover.These faux pas by the Institutional Revolutionary party candidate, famous for his good looks and telenovela star wife, at the international literary festival in Guadalajara, left Mexico's social and mainstream media buzzing with mockery. In one photo montage Pe\u00f1a Nieto is chastised by the Pope for not reading all the holy work. \"The thing is, I don't remember who wrote it,\" his speech bubble replies.It looked a gift for his presidential rival, Ernesto Cordero, of the governing National Action party, who told a radio interviewer the gaffes raised \"serious doubts\" about the PRI candidate. Cordero then named his three books: Animal Farm and Alice in Wonderland, correctly attributed, and Isle of Passion by Colombian Isabel Restrepo. Oops, the novel is written by Laura Restrepo, suggesting he mixed her up with Isabel Allende.\"These politicians are all puffed up with power, and don't read anything,\" Mexican author Elena Poniatowska told the Guardian. \"At least they're now revealing their lack of culture for all to see.\"Pe\u00f1a Nieto tried contrition, thanking the \"critical and even funny\" responses. Then his daughter kept things ticking over by retweeting a comment on his critics: \"Hello to the bunch of wankers that come from the proletariat and only criticize those they envy\". More damage limitation. Pe\u00f1a Nieto had, he tweeted, \"had a talk with my children about respect and tolerance\".This comedy recalls President Vicente Fox's many cultural gaffes, one being his renaming of Argentina's literary giant, Jorge Luis Borges, as Borgues. And last year Fox tweeted congratulations to Mario Vargas Llosa for being the third Latin American to win the Nobel, with Borges and Octavio Paz. Borges never won the honour, even if he might have relished the joke.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 December 2011. The original referred to Argentinian author Jos\u00e9 Luis Borges. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "The Bible", "Books", "Culture", "Jeffrey Archer", "UK news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "Mexico mocks presidential candidate for literature festival faux pas"},{"date": "2011-12-06T07:41:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has accused Halliburton of destroying damaging evidence relating to last year's Gulf of Mexico oil spill.In a court filing, BP has alleged that the US oil services firm of intentionally destroying evidence about possible problems with its cement slurry poured into the deep-sea Macondo well about 100 miles (160 km) off the Louisiana coast. An oil well must be cemented properly to avoid blowouts.Also in the documents filed in a New Orleans federal court, BP accuses Halliburton of failing to produce incriminating computer modelling evidence.BP asked a US judge to penalise Halliburton and order a court-sponsored computer forensic team to recover the modelling results.Halliburton has told media outlets that the accusations are untrue.The allegations in the 310-page motion add to a showdown among BP and the contractors Halliburton and Transocean over blame in the Deepwater Horizon blast in April 2010, which killed 11 workers and led to 206m US gallons (780m litres) of crude oil escaping into the Gulf of Mexico. So far, BP, the majority owner of the Macondo well, has footed the bill for the emergency response and cleanup.Also involved are Anadarko Petroleum and Cameron International.The first trial over the disaster is scheduled to start 27 February in New Orleans. It is expected to last three months and determine the liability of each company involved in drilling the Macondo well. There will be other phases over cleanup costs, punitive damages and other claims.US federal and independent investigations into the disaster have found fault in Halliburton's cementing because it failed to properly plug the well. The firm used a foamy cement slurry.In Monday's court filing, BP alleges that Halliburton employees discarded and destroyed early test results they performed on the same batch of cement slurry used in the Macondo well during an internal investigation into the disaster.BP said Halliburton's chief cement mixer for Gulf projects testified in depositions that the cement slurry seemed \"thin\" to him but that he chose not to write about his findings to his bosses out of fear he would be misinterpreted.\"I didn't want to put anything on an email that could be twisted, and turned,\" Rickey Morgan, the Halliburton cement expert, said in depositions. He worked at a laboratory in Duncan, Oklahoma.\"Upon reviewing these latest testing results, Halliburton employees destroyed records of the testing as well as the physical cement samples used in the testing,\" BP alleged.", "tags": ["BP oil spill", "BP", "Halliburton", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Environment", "US news", "World news", "Pollution", "Oil", "Business"], "title": "BP accuses Halliburton over Gulf of Mexico oil spill"},{"date": "2012-03-20T21:18:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake with an estimated magnitude of about 7.8 has rocked Mexico, with the authorities initially reporting minor damage and no loss of life.The streets of the capital, Mexico City, filled with frightened people evacuated from buildings that swayed dramatically on Tuesday. Telephone networks were immediately saturated and power was cut in much of the capital. Schools reported panic attacks among some children.The authorities said the epicentre of the quake was located below the Pacific coast near the border between the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero and close to the town of Pinotepa Nacional.Such movements were felt intensely in the capital despite being hundreds of miles away because the jelly-like ground of the dried out lakebed on which it is built amplifies the impact.A pedestrian bridge on the outskirts of the city partially collapsed but other initial reports of damage were limited to cracks and inclinations.About 40 passengers were stranded for a short time on the Mexico City airport air train, but later released. The airport closed for a time but officials said there was no runway damage and they resumed operations.There were reports of collapsed houses in remote areas closer to the epicentre.Barack Obama's oldest daughter, Malia, is on holiday with a school group in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The White House confirmed she was safe and had not been in danger during the quake. Kristina Schake, the first lady's communications director, says Malia, 13, \"is safe and was never in danger\".Typically the White House does not comment on the Obama children but made an exception because of the quake.The earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Mexico since the 8.2 tremor in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico earthquake rattles capital city"},{"date": "2012-03-20T21:18:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake with an estimated magnitude of about 7.8 has rocked Mexico, with the authorities initially reporting minor damage and no loss of life.The streets of the capital, Mexico City, filled with frightened people evacuated from buildings that swayed dramatically on Tuesday. Telephone networks were immediately saturated and power was cut in much of the capital. Schools reported panic attacks among some children.The authorities said the epicentre of the quake was located below the Pacific coast near the border between the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero and close to the town of Pinotepa Nacional.Such movements were felt intensely in the capital despite being hundreds of miles away because the jelly-like ground of the dried out lakebed on which it is built amplifies the impact.A pedestrian bridge on the outskirts of the city partially collapsed but other initial reports of damage were limited to cracks and inclinations.About 40 passengers were stranded for a short time on the Mexico City airport air train, but later released. The airport closed for a time but officials said there was no runway damage and they resumed operations.There were reports of collapsed houses in remote areas closer to the epicentre.Barack Obama's oldest daughter, Malia, is on holiday with a school group in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The White House confirmed she was safe and had not been in danger during the quake. Kristina Schake, the first lady's communications director, says Malia, 13, \"is safe and was never in danger\".Typically the White House does not comment on the Obama children but made an exception because of the quake.The earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Mexico since the 8.2 tremor in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico earthquake rattles capital city"},{"date": "2012-02-07T09:04:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The breakdown of law and order in certain Mexican cities means that journalists can not only not count on police protection but are also coming under attack from police officers.The latest example of police assaults on reporters happened last Friday, 3 February, in the border city of Ciudad Juarez.Joel Gonz\u00e1lez, a reporter with El Diario, was arrested and beaten by officers while attempting to report on the arbitrary arrest of a citizen in front of the newspaper's offices.He has since filed a complaint with the attorney general for abuse by the authorities.El Diario also reported that on 31 January, police threatened and attacked reporters trying to photograph and film a police search of a home where three people were arrested and drugs and arms were seized. The day before, police pointed their rifles at two journalists from the newspaper Norte, forcing them to delete photos they had taken.The Association of Journalists of Ciudad Juarez urged the state governor to institute controls over the city's police.Source: Knight Centre See also YouTube footage", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Police attack journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-03-20T21:18:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake with an estimated magnitude of about 7.8 has rocked Mexico, with the authorities initially reporting minor damage and no loss of life.The streets of the capital, Mexico City, filled with frightened people evacuated from buildings that swayed dramatically on Tuesday. Telephone networks were immediately saturated and power was cut in much of the capital. Schools reported panic attacks among some children.The authorities said the epicentre of the quake was located below the Pacific coast near the border between the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero and close to the town of Pinotepa Nacional.Such movements were felt intensely in the capital despite being hundreds of miles away because the jelly-like ground of the dried out lakebed on which it is built amplifies the impact.A pedestrian bridge on the outskirts of the city partially collapsed but other initial reports of damage were limited to cracks and inclinations.About 40 passengers were stranded for a short time on the Mexico City airport air train, but later released. The airport closed for a time but officials said there was no runway damage and they resumed operations.There were reports of collapsed houses in remote areas closer to the epicentre.Barack Obama's oldest daughter, Malia, is on holiday with a school group in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The White House confirmed she was safe and had not been in danger during the quake. Kristina Schake, the first lady's communications director, says Malia, 13, \"is safe and was never in danger\".Typically the White House does not comment on the Obama children but made an exception because of the quake.The earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Mexico since the 8.2 tremor in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico earthquake rattles capital city"},{"date": "2012-02-07T09:04:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The breakdown of law and order in certain Mexican cities means that journalists can not only not count on police protection but are also coming under attack from police officers.The latest example of police assaults on reporters happened last Friday, 3 February, in the border city of Ciudad Juarez.Joel Gonz\u00e1lez, a reporter with El Diario, was arrested and beaten by officers while attempting to report on the arbitrary arrest of a citizen in front of the newspaper's offices.He has since filed a complaint with the attorney general for abuse by the authorities.El Diario also reported that on 31 January, police threatened and attacked reporters trying to photograph and film a police search of a home where three people were arrested and drugs and arms were seized. The day before, police pointed their rifles at two journalists from the newspaper Norte, forcing them to delete photos they had taken.The Association of Journalists of Ciudad Juarez urged the state governor to institute controls over the city's police.Source: Knight Centre See also YouTube footage", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Police attack journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-02-28T21:08:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Herons swoop over a flat-bottomed boat navigating a canal and rest in one of the water-loving ahuehuete trees on the embankment. In a nearby field, an ageing farmer with a straw hat and chiselled features checks his cabbages while two younger men weed a field of lettuces. Another man skilfully manoeuvres a wheelbarrow across a narrower canal and disappears past a bush of the white, trumpet-shaped alcatraz lilies that Diego Rivera was so fond of painting.Welcome to San Gregorio Atlapulco \u2013 a bucolic paradise in the middle of the watery corridor along the south-eastern edge of the Mexican capital and one of the last true redoubts of the floating gardens, known as chinampas, that once sustained the great Aztec capital Tenochtitlan. But even here, where the madding crowd is still relatively far away, there is a palpable sense that the clock is ticking for this way of life.\"When I was a child, all the chinampas were cultivated all of the time. Now it is probably down to about a third,\" says Mario Medina, a 60-year-old chinampero who says his land has been in his family since time immemorial, but none of his five children have any intention of farming it. \"I'm lucky if I get them to help for an hour. They are city people now.\"These flat and fertile gardens, built from piles of mud anchored by the ahuehuetes, were producing multiple yearly harvests of crops such as tomatoes and courgettes long before the Aztecs arrived in the lake-filled valley in the 14th century. The chinampas boomed as the Aztec empire and its capital \u2013 also built on an artificial island \u2013 flourished. Their slow decline began once the Spanish conquest brought a new urban ethos that sought to dominate the wet environment, rather than working in harmony with it. But the real danger of annihilation only emerged hundreds of years later when Mexico City's population exploded.With the mancha urbana \u2013 the urban stain \u2013 eating into chinampa territory in the south, a ban on construction on the islands towards the end of the 20th century helped slow the process. But incremental building continued, as did the chaotic urbanisation that both depletes and contaminates water in the canals. This encourages farmers to stop cultivating their land and build on it instead.The veteran environmental journalist Ivan Restrepo applauds some new government farming incentives but says these are insufficient to avert the \"unforgivable loss of the last remaining legacy of the impressive pre-Hispanic environmental tradition\".The most sensitive frontline of urban encroachment into the chinampas at the moment is Tlahuac, where some locals see the arrival of a new metro line as the beginning of the end. The new Gold line, due to open this spring, fills a gaping hole in the city's transportation network for existing residents along the route. But it will also make the semi-rural areas beyond much more attractive to migrants looking to set up a home within reach of city employment.Taking a break from tending to his radishes on his Tlahuac chinampa, 72-year-old Sabino Mart\u00ednez remembers the days when it was possible to drink the water from the canal, which is now flecked with rubbish.Mart\u00ednez's land has a view of the new metro terminal and some hills further south that he says were covered in cornfields not so long ago.Now, he predicts, they will soon be covered in houses, leaving the chinampas as a shrinking island between the two. \"It was once very beautiful here, but those days will never return,\" he says. \"Now we are going to become just another part of the metropolis.\"", "tags": ["Farming", "Conservation", "Mexico", "Endangered habitats", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Urbanisation", "Cities"], "title": "Mexico City's floating gardens threatened by urbanisation"},{"date": "2012-03-20T21:18:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake with an estimated magnitude of about 7.8 has rocked Mexico, with the authorities initially reporting minor damage and no loss of life.The streets of the capital, Mexico City, filled with frightened people evacuated from buildings that swayed dramatically on Tuesday. Telephone networks were immediately saturated and power was cut in much of the capital. Schools reported panic attacks among some children.The authorities said the epicentre of the quake was located below the Pacific coast near the border between the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero and close to the town of Pinotepa Nacional.Such movements were felt intensely in the capital despite being hundreds of miles away because the jelly-like ground of the dried out lakebed on which it is built amplifies the impact.A pedestrian bridge on the outskirts of the city partially collapsed but other initial reports of damage were limited to cracks and inclinations.About 40 passengers were stranded for a short time on the Mexico City airport air train, but later released. The airport closed for a time but officials said there was no runway damage and they resumed operations.There were reports of collapsed houses in remote areas closer to the epicentre.Barack Obama's oldest daughter, Malia, is on holiday with a school group in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The White House confirmed she was safe and had not been in danger during the quake. Kristina Schake, the first lady's communications director, says Malia, 13, \"is safe and was never in danger\".Typically the White House does not comment on the Obama children but made an exception because of the quake.The earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Mexico since the 8.2 tremor in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico earthquake rattles capital city"},{"date": "2012-02-07T09:04:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The breakdown of law and order in certain Mexican cities means that journalists can not only not count on police protection but are also coming under attack from police officers.The latest example of police assaults on reporters happened last Friday, 3 February, in the border city of Ciudad Juarez.Joel Gonz\u00e1lez, a reporter with El Diario, was arrested and beaten by officers while attempting to report on the arbitrary arrest of a citizen in front of the newspaper's offices.He has since filed a complaint with the attorney general for abuse by the authorities.El Diario also reported that on 31 January, police threatened and attacked reporters trying to photograph and film a police search of a home where three people were arrested and drugs and arms were seized. The day before, police pointed their rifles at two journalists from the newspaper Norte, forcing them to delete photos they had taken.The Association of Journalists of Ciudad Juarez urged the state governor to institute controls over the city's police.Source: Knight Centre See also YouTube footage", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Police attack journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-02-28T21:08:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Herons swoop over a flat-bottomed boat navigating a canal and rest in one of the water-loving ahuehuete trees on the embankment. In a nearby field, an ageing farmer with a straw hat and chiselled features checks his cabbages while two younger men weed a field of lettuces. Another man skilfully manoeuvres a wheelbarrow across a narrower canal and disappears past a bush of the white, trumpet-shaped alcatraz lilies that Diego Rivera was so fond of painting.Welcome to San Gregorio Atlapulco \u2013 a bucolic paradise in the middle of the watery corridor along the south-eastern edge of the Mexican capital and one of the last true redoubts of the floating gardens, known as chinampas, that once sustained the great Aztec capital Tenochtitlan. But even here, where the madding crowd is still relatively far away, there is a palpable sense that the clock is ticking for this way of life.\"When I was a child, all the chinampas were cultivated all of the time. Now it is probably down to about a third,\" says Mario Medina, a 60-year-old chinampero who says his land has been in his family since time immemorial, but none of his five children have any intention of farming it. \"I'm lucky if I get them to help for an hour. They are city people now.\"These flat and fertile gardens, built from piles of mud anchored by the ahuehuetes, were producing multiple yearly harvests of crops such as tomatoes and courgettes long before the Aztecs arrived in the lake-filled valley in the 14th century. The chinampas boomed as the Aztec empire and its capital \u2013 also built on an artificial island \u2013 flourished. Their slow decline began once the Spanish conquest brought a new urban ethos that sought to dominate the wet environment, rather than working in harmony with it. But the real danger of annihilation only emerged hundreds of years later when Mexico City's population exploded.With the mancha urbana \u2013 the urban stain \u2013 eating into chinampa territory in the south, a ban on construction on the islands towards the end of the 20th century helped slow the process. But incremental building continued, as did the chaotic urbanisation that both depletes and contaminates water in the canals. This encourages farmers to stop cultivating their land and build on it instead.The veteran environmental journalist Ivan Restrepo applauds some new government farming incentives but says these are insufficient to avert the \"unforgivable loss of the last remaining legacy of the impressive pre-Hispanic environmental tradition\".The most sensitive frontline of urban encroachment into the chinampas at the moment is Tlahuac, where some locals see the arrival of a new metro line as the beginning of the end. The new Gold line, due to open this spring, fills a gaping hole in the city's transportation network for existing residents along the route. But it will also make the semi-rural areas beyond much more attractive to migrants looking to set up a home within reach of city employment.Taking a break from tending to his radishes on his Tlahuac chinampa, 72-year-old Sabino Mart\u00ednez remembers the days when it was possible to drink the water from the canal, which is now flecked with rubbish.Mart\u00ednez's land has a view of the new metro terminal and some hills further south that he says were covered in cornfields not so long ago.Now, he predicts, they will soon be covered in houses, leaving the chinampas as a shrinking island between the two. \"It was once very beautiful here, but those days will never return,\" he says. \"Now we are going to become just another part of the metropolis.\"", "tags": ["Farming", "Conservation", "Mexico", "Endangered habitats", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Urbanisation", "Cities"], "title": "Mexico City's floating gardens threatened by urbanisation"},{"date": "2012-02-03T22:54:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of January I was at the Royal Courts of Justice to hear Jonathan Heawood, of English PEN, speak to the Leveson inquiry about the importance of a free press. By Friday I had moved continents, going from the unseasonably warm grey of an English winter to the unseasonably chill blue of a Mexican one. A strange dislocation but, by the time my week was done, I realised how strong is the thread joining its beginning to its end.Mexico City is a grand old town. Its magnificent central square, the Z\u00f3calo, built out of the destruction of an earlier civilisation, is sinking slowly into the marshes from which it had once been claimed. A similar process has now all but buried free expression: Mexico has the dubious distinction of being tied for first place with Pakistan as the world's deadliest country for journalists.In Britain we worry about the chilling effect of the over-regulation of the press: in Mexico they cut to the chase and shoot (or decapitate) the messenger. Since 2000, 67 Mexican journalists have been killed \u2013 a number that President Calder\u00f3n's war on drugs has only helped to increase. In 90% of these cases, no one has been prosecuted, never mind convicted. Which is why I was there. I was part of a PEN International delegation that, in collaboration with Mexican PEN, aimed to draw worldwide attention to the culture of impunity that silences not only the people who speak out, but the word itself.The trip turned out to be an eye-opener, revealing the way in which competing drug cartels, inept or corrupt government, the police and terrified media join together in the suppression of free expression. We met politicians and prosecutors, writers and journalists, ambassadors and NGOs, our visit culminating in a public event, \"PEN Protesta\", where dozens of Mexican writers gave eloquent insight into their country's malaise. The tone was set by one of the first speakers who, paraphrasing Mandelstam, told us that \"if you kill poets it means you don't respect poetry but if you kill journalists you don't respect society.\" Mexico, said another, is a country that \"vomits blood\"; a third described it as \"a magical country full of assassinated people and no apparent assassins\". It's a country where, according to one of Mexico's pre-eminent writers, Elena Poniatowska, \"reporters are hunted like rabbits.\"After the event, I was left with a lasting image of the diminutive, red-clad Poniatowska. While we drank tequila from champagne glasses, she posed for photographs with a lineup of members of the Banda de Tlayacapan. The band was a mixed bunch \u2013 women in poncho-topped long dresses, old men and boys, their faces almost drowned by large brimmed hats \u2013 and their sound that of strident Mexican brass, strangely slowed. \"It's a dirge,\" the novelist Jennifer Clement explained. \"They play at funerals. Seemed right, given we are holding a wake for free expression.\"Mentions of funerals were on many lips. Journalists spoke movingly about the loss of their friends and colleagues and of a resulting powerlessness so intense that all they could do was bury their dead. Mexico City itself is relatively safe but at least once a week organisations that protect journalists are asked to hide people from other parts of the country for whom the threats have grown particularly serious. And not only are journalists kidnapped: so are their stories. Airports are turned into information black holes as stories disappear into them.Asked what could be done to help, the requests became eerily familiar: journalists need training in their craft, various people told us, but more than anything they need training in how to protect themselves. Despite the appointment of a special prosecutor to protect journalists, impunity continues almost completely unchallenged. Of the 55 indictments brought by the special prosecutor to the federal courts, only five cases have been allowed to proceed, and from these, not a single person has yet been convicted. It's almost as bad for community radio practitioners who act as the voice of social movements: they are continually harassed or charged with using the airwaves without a licence, and the law has been designed to prevent them from procuring the advertising revenues that might make them even half solvent.Clement, who is also president of Mexican PEN, had kicked off PEN Protesta by saying that \"words are the rocks we throw at each other\". By the end of my trip I understood what she meant. For when it comes to the practice of journalism, and to the prosecution of the murderers of journalists, Mexico is caught in a series of interlocking catch-22s. The government blames the deaths on organised crime. But, according to the London-based free expression group Article 19, up to 70% of aggressions against the media are government-inspired. Most of these can be laid at the door of local and regional government, about which the national government says it can do little. Added to this, an inept or corrupted police force joins with a similarly corrupted media to portray the murders as crimes of passion, which means they are never properly investigated.The big media corporations often lead the charge in denigrating murdered journalists, even accusing them of being linked to the same cartels they were trying to denounce. This obliteration of a free press is not surprising: when a cartel targets a town for take-over it first compromises the mayor with threats or money and then it takes care of the police. Having taken control, it cannot let the press talk about the extent of its corruption and so has to move in on this, the third leg of the stool.\"There is silence in our country,\" we were told, \"and it is the silence of death.\" Yet even now, courageous journalists risk speaking out. As I flew back to a freezing London, I realised how brave they are and also how much my visit reinforced my belief in the importance of a free press not just for journalists but for a whole society.\u2022 Gillian Slovo is the president of English PEN.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Newspapers", "Media", "Mexico"], "title": "'In Mexico, reporters are hunted like rabbits'"},{"date": "2012-03-20T21:18:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A strong earthquake with an estimated magnitude of about 7.8 has rocked Mexico, with the authorities initially reporting minor damage and no loss of life.The streets of the capital, Mexico City, filled with frightened people evacuated from buildings that swayed dramatically on Tuesday. Telephone networks were immediately saturated and power was cut in much of the capital. Schools reported panic attacks among some children.The authorities said the epicentre of the quake was located below the Pacific coast near the border between the states of Oaxaca and Guerrero and close to the town of Pinotepa Nacional.Such movements were felt intensely in the capital despite being hundreds of miles away because the jelly-like ground of the dried out lakebed on which it is built amplifies the impact.A pedestrian bridge on the outskirts of the city partially collapsed but other initial reports of damage were limited to cracks and inclinations.About 40 passengers were stranded for a short time on the Mexico City airport air train, but later released. The airport closed for a time but officials said there was no runway damage and they resumed operations.There were reports of collapsed houses in remote areas closer to the epicentre.Barack Obama's oldest daughter, Malia, is on holiday with a school group in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The White House confirmed she was safe and had not been in danger during the quake. Kristina Schake, the first lady's communications director, says Malia, 13, \"is safe and was never in danger\".Typically the White House does not comment on the Obama children but made an exception because of the quake.The earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Mexico since the 8.2 tremor in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico earthquake rattles capital city"},{"date": "2012-02-07T09:04:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The breakdown of law and order in certain Mexican cities means that journalists can not only not count on police protection but are also coming under attack from police officers.The latest example of police assaults on reporters happened last Friday, 3 February, in the border city of Ciudad Juarez.Joel Gonz\u00e1lez, a reporter with El Diario, was arrested and beaten by officers while attempting to report on the arbitrary arrest of a citizen in front of the newspaper's offices.He has since filed a complaint with the attorney general for abuse by the authorities.El Diario also reported that on 31 January, police threatened and attacked reporters trying to photograph and film a police search of a home where three people were arrested and drugs and arms were seized. The day before, police pointed their rifles at two journalists from the newspaper Norte, forcing them to delete photos they had taken.The Association of Journalists of Ciudad Juarez urged the state governor to institute controls over the city's police.Source: Knight Centre See also YouTube footage", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Police attack journalists in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-02-28T21:08:51Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Herons swoop over a flat-bottomed boat navigating a canal and rest in one of the water-loving ahuehuete trees on the embankment. In a nearby field, an ageing farmer with a straw hat and chiselled features checks his cabbages while two younger men weed a field of lettuces. Another man skilfully manoeuvres a wheelbarrow across a narrower canal and disappears past a bush of the white, trumpet-shaped alcatraz lilies that Diego Rivera was so fond of painting.Welcome to San Gregorio Atlapulco \u2013 a bucolic paradise in the middle of the watery corridor along the south-eastern edge of the Mexican capital and one of the last true redoubts of the floating gardens, known as chinampas, that once sustained the great Aztec capital Tenochtitlan. But even here, where the madding crowd is still relatively far away, there is a palpable sense that the clock is ticking for this way of life.\"When I was a child, all the chinampas were cultivated all of the time. Now it is probably down to about a third,\" says Mario Medina, a 60-year-old chinampero who says his land has been in his family since time immemorial, but none of his five children have any intention of farming it. \"I'm lucky if I get them to help for an hour. They are city people now.\"These flat and fertile gardens, built from piles of mud anchored by the ahuehuetes, were producing multiple yearly harvests of crops such as tomatoes and courgettes long before the Aztecs arrived in the lake-filled valley in the 14th century. The chinampas boomed as the Aztec empire and its capital \u2013 also built on an artificial island \u2013 flourished. Their slow decline began once the Spanish conquest brought a new urban ethos that sought to dominate the wet environment, rather than working in harmony with it. But the real danger of annihilation only emerged hundreds of years later when Mexico City's population exploded.With the mancha urbana \u2013 the urban stain \u2013 eating into chinampa territory in the south, a ban on construction on the islands towards the end of the 20th century helped slow the process. But incremental building continued, as did the chaotic urbanisation that both depletes and contaminates water in the canals. This encourages farmers to stop cultivating their land and build on it instead.The veteran environmental journalist Ivan Restrepo applauds some new government farming incentives but says these are insufficient to avert the \"unforgivable loss of the last remaining legacy of the impressive pre-Hispanic environmental tradition\".The most sensitive frontline of urban encroachment into the chinampas at the moment is Tlahuac, where some locals see the arrival of a new metro line as the beginning of the end. The new Gold line, due to open this spring, fills a gaping hole in the city's transportation network for existing residents along the route. But it will also make the semi-rural areas beyond much more attractive to migrants looking to set up a home within reach of city employment.Taking a break from tending to his radishes on his Tlahuac chinampa, 72-year-old Sabino Mart\u00ednez remembers the days when it was possible to drink the water from the canal, which is now flecked with rubbish.Mart\u00ednez's land has a view of the new metro terminal and some hills further south that he says were covered in cornfields not so long ago.Now, he predicts, they will soon be covered in houses, leaving the chinampas as a shrinking island between the two. \"It was once very beautiful here, but those days will never return,\" he says. \"Now we are going to become just another part of the metropolis.\"", "tags": ["Farming", "Conservation", "Mexico", "Endangered habitats", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Urbanisation", "Cities"], "title": "Mexico City's floating gardens threatened by urbanisation"},{"date": "2012-02-03T22:54:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of January I was at the Royal Courts of Justice to hear Jonathan Heawood, of English PEN, speak to the Leveson inquiry about the importance of a free press. By Friday I had moved continents, going from the unseasonably warm grey of an English winter to the unseasonably chill blue of a Mexican one. A strange dislocation but, by the time my week was done, I realised how strong is the thread joining its beginning to its end.Mexico City is a grand old town. Its magnificent central square, the Z\u00f3calo, built out of the destruction of an earlier civilisation, is sinking slowly into the marshes from which it had once been claimed. A similar process has now all but buried free expression: Mexico has the dubious distinction of being tied for first place with Pakistan as the world's deadliest country for journalists.In Britain we worry about the chilling effect of the over-regulation of the press: in Mexico they cut to the chase and shoot (or decapitate) the messenger. Since 2000, 67 Mexican journalists have been killed \u2013 a number that President Calder\u00f3n's war on drugs has only helped to increase. In 90% of these cases, no one has been prosecuted, never mind convicted. Which is why I was there. I was part of a PEN International delegation that, in collaboration with Mexican PEN, aimed to draw worldwide attention to the culture of impunity that silences not only the people who speak out, but the word itself.The trip turned out to be an eye-opener, revealing the way in which competing drug cartels, inept or corrupt government, the police and terrified media join together in the suppression of free expression. We met politicians and prosecutors, writers and journalists, ambassadors and NGOs, our visit culminating in a public event, \"PEN Protesta\", where dozens of Mexican writers gave eloquent insight into their country's malaise. The tone was set by one of the first speakers who, paraphrasing Mandelstam, told us that \"if you kill poets it means you don't respect poetry but if you kill journalists you don't respect society.\" Mexico, said another, is a country that \"vomits blood\"; a third described it as \"a magical country full of assassinated people and no apparent assassins\". It's a country where, according to one of Mexico's pre-eminent writers, Elena Poniatowska, \"reporters are hunted like rabbits.\"After the event, I was left with a lasting image of the diminutive, red-clad Poniatowska. While we drank tequila from champagne glasses, she posed for photographs with a lineup of members of the Banda de Tlayacapan. The band was a mixed bunch \u2013 women in poncho-topped long dresses, old men and boys, their faces almost drowned by large brimmed hats \u2013 and their sound that of strident Mexican brass, strangely slowed. \"It's a dirge,\" the novelist Jennifer Clement explained. \"They play at funerals. Seemed right, given we are holding a wake for free expression.\"Mentions of funerals were on many lips. Journalists spoke movingly about the loss of their friends and colleagues and of a resulting powerlessness so intense that all they could do was bury their dead. Mexico City itself is relatively safe but at least once a week organisations that protect journalists are asked to hide people from other parts of the country for whom the threats have grown particularly serious. And not only are journalists kidnapped: so are their stories. Airports are turned into information black holes as stories disappear into them.Asked what could be done to help, the requests became eerily familiar: journalists need training in their craft, various people told us, but more than anything they need training in how to protect themselves. Despite the appointment of a special prosecutor to protect journalists, impunity continues almost completely unchallenged. Of the 55 indictments brought by the special prosecutor to the federal courts, only five cases have been allowed to proceed, and from these, not a single person has yet been convicted. It's almost as bad for community radio practitioners who act as the voice of social movements: they are continually harassed or charged with using the airwaves without a licence, and the law has been designed to prevent them from procuring the advertising revenues that might make them even half solvent.Clement, who is also president of Mexican PEN, had kicked off PEN Protesta by saying that \"words are the rocks we throw at each other\". By the end of my trip I understood what she meant. For when it comes to the practice of journalism, and to the prosecution of the murderers of journalists, Mexico is caught in a series of interlocking catch-22s. The government blames the deaths on organised crime. But, according to the London-based free expression group Article 19, up to 70% of aggressions against the media are government-inspired. Most of these can be laid at the door of local and regional government, about which the national government says it can do little. Added to this, an inept or corrupted police force joins with a similarly corrupted media to portray the murders as crimes of passion, which means they are never properly investigated.The big media corporations often lead the charge in denigrating murdered journalists, even accusing them of being linked to the same cartels they were trying to denounce. This obliteration of a free press is not surprising: when a cartel targets a town for take-over it first compromises the mayor with threats or money and then it takes care of the police. Having taken control, it cannot let the press talk about the extent of its corruption and so has to move in on this, the third leg of the stool.\"There is silence in our country,\" we were told, \"and it is the silence of death.\" Yet even now, courageous journalists risk speaking out. As I flew back to a freezing London, I realised how brave they are and also how much my visit reinforced my belief in the importance of a free press not just for journalists but for a whole society.\u2022 Gillian Slovo is the president of English PEN.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Newspapers", "Media", "Mexico"], "title": "'In Mexico, reporters are hunted like rabbits'"},{"date": "2012-03-22T10:49:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Father Erasmo Dorantes doesn't like talking about the new modernist church with a 20-metre high metal cross within his parish in a working-class barrio of the central Mexican city of Pachuca.\"All I do is say mass there every Sunday,\" he says. \"What's done is done and I don't have relations with those people.\"Those people are the Zetas drug cartel, or more specifically the group's leader, Heriberto Lazcano. Photographs of a plaque thanking the kingpin for building the church caused a scandal when they were published in a national newspaper in October 2010.The scandal has faded but the plaque remains \u2013 an uncomfortable reminder of the influence of the drugs culture in the Mexican Catholic church that Pope Benedict XVI called on the country's bishops to eradicate shortly after he was elected in 2005. As they prepare for his first visit to Mexico, beginning on Friday, the bishops are keen to play down the issue.\"The warnings from the pope were clear,\" said Monse\u00f1or Ren\u00e9 Rodr\u00edguez, secretary general of the Mexican Episcopal Conference, before adding that constant vigilance meant narco donations were now a minor problem. But while he insisted that priests reported all suspicious donations to their dioceses, which are then reported to the federal government, he also said he did not know how how often this had happened.A criminal investigation into the Pachuca church was opened, but a source in the attorney general's office said it failed to find hard evidence that illicit money was used. The benefactor simply sent along workers to build it, leaving no financial transactions to trace. The source said there had been no further investigations.Father Robert Coogan, a Brooklyn-born priest who works in the socially progressive diocese of Saltillo in northern Mexico, said drugs money was constantly channelled into the church in the context of the government's five-year offensive against the cartels, and the accompanying violence that has killed at least 50,000 people.When prisoners from the Zetas cartel offered last year to paint the jail chapel he administers, the priest said he tried to wriggle out of the situation by arguing that the leaky roof would spoil their work. They not only completed the paint job, but waterproofed the building. Making a fuss, he said, could have triggered reprisals against other prisoners.Narco donations are often understood as a way for traffickers to cope with living on the edge, or as attempts to buy forgiveness. Coogan sees them primarily as a strategy to underline cartel dominance of the territories where they operate.\"These are tough times and we need to face them,\" he said. \"We need more leadership.\"Narco-church relations are nothing new. In 1993 the leaders of the Tijuana cartel held a secret meeting with the papal nuncio in Mexico City as part of an effort to distance themselves from a chaotic shootout that had killed a cardinal in an airport car park eight months earlier. The meeting was brokered by a Tijuana priest who had received bountiful donations over the years.Pope Benedict's expressions of concern about such relations at the start of his papacy suggested the issue would become a priority. Comments by a Mexican bishop around the same time that equated narco donations to the expensive perfume used by Mary Magdaleneto wash Jesus's feet were quickly refuted by his peers.But while the bishops have since periodically stressed that drug money can never be purified, and should never be accepted, they have done little else as pressure from the Vatican has waned.While the pope is expected to talk about the violence battering Mexico during his three-day visit to the Catholic heartland state of Guanajuato, observers believe he is unlikely to make more than a passing reference to corrosion of the church itself.In the meantime one cartel has sought to take propagandistic advantage of the visit. Banners signed by the Knights Templar cartel hung up around Guanajauto on Sunday welcomed the pope and promised to refrain from \"acts of war\" during his visit. That same cartel was suspected to be responsible for the appearance of 10 severed heads outside a slaughterhouse in another state on the same day.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Catholicism", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news", "Religion", "Christianity", "Pope Benedict XVI", "The papacy"], "title": "Pope's visit to Mexico refocuses attention on narco-church relations"},{"date": "2012-06-26T19:56:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Imagine David and Samantha Cameron getting themselves written into an episode of the Archers during an election campaign. The governor of Monterrey and his wife appeared in a cameo role in the Mexican version of Ugly Betty, and that is the least of it.In Mexico, political product placement is a highly organised and lucrative business. We report on claims that a secretive unit was set up inside Televisa, the world's largest Spanish-language broadcaster, to promote the favourite in Mexico's presidential campaign, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. Televisa, which denies the allegation, is not necessarily loyal to Pe\u00f1a Nieto's party, the Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI). It has dealt pragmatically in the past with rivals such as the conservative National Action party (PAN) and the leftwing party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD). Its loyalty appears to be to a power structure, not necessarily its temporary tenants. The story does, however, say much about the state of Mexico, and its lack of transparency and accountability 12 years into its democratic transition.It has been a history of failure, not just of the outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n and his disastrous war on drugs, which if anything weakened the country's institutional capacity to deal with the drug barons, but also of Vicente Fox before him, who promised much, but did nothing about cleaning up the old political structure \u2013 instead this has been rebranded, using the telegenic face of Pe\u00f1a Nieto. PRI's makeover is clever. It has managed to confect a soft nostalgia around the memory of its hegemonic rule for most of the last century. Pe\u00f1a Nieto's message is that he knows how to get things done, that he will bring results.Pe\u00f1a Nieto denies a special relationship with Televisa, which grew from a radio station in 1930 to an empire which, it is suggested, turned news into PRI propaganda and slanted entertainment shows. In the past they used telenovelas to preach to Mexicans to know their place and be happy with their lot. Today the unit known as \"Team Handcock\" is said to use social media and YouTube to launder their political message. One contract we publish actually states that the aim is to produce \"videos that mock some of the errors and weak points of the National Action party\".Most of the above could just as accurately be written about an election in America or Britain. As we are daily being made only too aware, the relationship between our media and politicians is all too symbiotic. The point is not that this sort of thing happens everywhere, but that it subverts democracy wherever it occurs. It appears Mexican voters are being lulled into accepting political manipulation. With the honourable exception of the Yo Soy 132 student-led movement, the depressing thing is that these tactics generally work.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 June 2012. The original did not follow the usual Spanish-speaking style for Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto's surname. This has been corrected", "tags": ["Mexico", "Televisa", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Media"], "title": "Mexico: and in the next episode \u2026 | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-26T19:56:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Imagine David and Samantha Cameron getting themselves written into an episode of the Archers during an election campaign. The governor of Monterrey and his wife appeared in a cameo role in the Mexican version of Ugly Betty, and that is the least of it.In Mexico, political product placement is a highly organised and lucrative business. We report on claims that a secretive unit was set up inside Televisa, the world's largest Spanish-language broadcaster, to promote the favourite in Mexico's presidential campaign, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. Televisa, which denies the allegation, is not necessarily loyal to Pe\u00f1a Nieto's party, the Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI). It has dealt pragmatically in the past with rivals such as the conservative National Action party (PAN) and the leftwing party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD). Its loyalty appears to be to a power structure, not necessarily its temporary tenants. The story does, however, say much about the state of Mexico, and its lack of transparency and accountability 12 years into its democratic transition.It has been a history of failure, not just of the outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n and his disastrous war on drugs, which if anything weakened the country's institutional capacity to deal with the drug barons, but also of Vicente Fox before him, who promised much, but did nothing about cleaning up the old political structure \u2013 instead this has been rebranded, using the telegenic face of Pe\u00f1a Nieto. PRI's makeover is clever. It has managed to confect a soft nostalgia around the memory of its hegemonic rule for most of the last century. Pe\u00f1a Nieto's message is that he knows how to get things done, that he will bring results.Pe\u00f1a Nieto denies a special relationship with Televisa, which grew from a radio station in 1930 to an empire which, it is suggested, turned news into PRI propaganda and slanted entertainment shows. In the past they used telenovelas to preach to Mexicans to know their place and be happy with their lot. Today the unit known as \"Team Handcock\" is said to use social media and YouTube to launder their political message. One contract we publish actually states that the aim is to produce \"videos that mock some of the errors and weak points of the National Action party\".Most of the above could just as accurately be written about an election in America or Britain. As we are daily being made only too aware, the relationship between our media and politicians is all too symbiotic. The point is not that this sort of thing happens everywhere, but that it subverts democracy wherever it occurs. It appears Mexican voters are being lulled into accepting political manipulation. With the honourable exception of the Yo Soy 132 student-led movement, the depressing thing is that these tactics generally work.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 June 2012. The original did not follow the usual Spanish-speaking style for Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto's surname. This has been corrected", "tags": ["Mexico", "Televisa", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Media"], "title": "Mexico: and in the next episode \u2026 | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-20T22:10:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "David Cameron launched a one-day charm offensive in Mexico City in a bid to boost British business interests in Mexico, the second largest economy in Latin America, pointing out Mexico will be one of the world's five largest economies by 2050. Britain currently supplies less than 1% of Mexico's imports.The prime minister's trade minister Lord Green also admitted that Britain for many years had got its priorities wrong by focusing excessively on Brazil at the expense of Mexico. Britain and Mexico have signed an agreement to try to double trade by 2015 to \u00a34.2bn.Cameron was in Mexico City to hold talks with outgoing President Felip\u00e9 Calderon who had just completed the arduous task of chairing the G20 Summit in Los Cabos, a two-hour flight away on the Pacific coast. The two men made brief statements to the press in the overcast gardens of Los Pinos, the Presidential residence, vowing to strengthen commercial links.The prime minister had earlier met business leaders, including the world's richest man Carlos Slim (worth $50bn) and introduced a UK business delegation that includes green energy companies and the ceramicist Emma Bridgewater.Mexico, due to grow by 4% this year, has a surging manufacturing industry and growing middle class. Calderon pointed out the economy was creating 600,000 jobs a year. Britain is the fifth largest foreign investor in Mexico, but nearly four fifths of Mexican trade is with the US.Cameron said he wanted to step up trade links with countries like Mexico because \"the eurozone is currently stagnant and that may continue for a while\".Calderon is expected to be replaced, following elections in a fortnight, by Enrique Pena Nieto the leader of the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party. The PRI ran Mexico for 70 years but lost power in 2010.At a business event, Green pointed out Mexico's ranking in the World Bank's ease of doing business index is higher than Brazil's, and yet Brazil gets more attention in the British public mind than Mexico does.Green pointed out that Mexico outpaced Brazil in terms of GDP growth last year and is on course to do the same this year.Referring to the emerging economies dynamism Lord Green said \"This isn't just a flash in the pan. This isn't just something that will be true in the next year or two or three. No, this is going to be the trend for the next generation,\"\"The centre of the world's gravity is shifting from the west to east (and) from the north to south. Mexico is becoming \u2026 a diverse growing economy that is more and more interesting to British business.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "David Cameron", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Politics"], "title": "David Cameron launches charm offensive in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-06-26T19:56:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Imagine David and Samantha Cameron getting themselves written into an episode of the Archers during an election campaign. The governor of Monterrey and his wife appeared in a cameo role in the Mexican version of Ugly Betty, and that is the least of it.In Mexico, political product placement is a highly organised and lucrative business. We report on claims that a secretive unit was set up inside Televisa, the world's largest Spanish-language broadcaster, to promote the favourite in Mexico's presidential campaign, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. Televisa, which denies the allegation, is not necessarily loyal to Pe\u00f1a Nieto's party, the Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI). It has dealt pragmatically in the past with rivals such as the conservative National Action party (PAN) and the leftwing party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD). Its loyalty appears to be to a power structure, not necessarily its temporary tenants. The story does, however, say much about the state of Mexico, and its lack of transparency and accountability 12 years into its democratic transition.It has been a history of failure, not just of the outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n and his disastrous war on drugs, which if anything weakened the country's institutional capacity to deal with the drug barons, but also of Vicente Fox before him, who promised much, but did nothing about cleaning up the old political structure \u2013 instead this has been rebranded, using the telegenic face of Pe\u00f1a Nieto. PRI's makeover is clever. It has managed to confect a soft nostalgia around the memory of its hegemonic rule for most of the last century. Pe\u00f1a Nieto's message is that he knows how to get things done, that he will bring results.Pe\u00f1a Nieto denies a special relationship with Televisa, which grew from a radio station in 1930 to an empire which, it is suggested, turned news into PRI propaganda and slanted entertainment shows. In the past they used telenovelas to preach to Mexicans to know their place and be happy with their lot. Today the unit known as \"Team Handcock\" is said to use social media and YouTube to launder their political message. One contract we publish actually states that the aim is to produce \"videos that mock some of the errors and weak points of the National Action party\".Most of the above could just as accurately be written about an election in America or Britain. As we are daily being made only too aware, the relationship between our media and politicians is all too symbiotic. The point is not that this sort of thing happens everywhere, but that it subverts democracy wherever it occurs. It appears Mexican voters are being lulled into accepting political manipulation. With the honourable exception of the Yo Soy 132 student-led movement, the depressing thing is that these tactics generally work.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 June 2012. The original did not follow the usual Spanish-speaking style for Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto's surname. This has been corrected", "tags": ["Mexico", "Televisa", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Media"], "title": "Mexico: and in the next episode \u2026 | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-20T22:10:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "David Cameron launched a one-day charm offensive in Mexico City in a bid to boost British business interests in Mexico, the second largest economy in Latin America, pointing out Mexico will be one of the world's five largest economies by 2050. Britain currently supplies less than 1% of Mexico's imports.The prime minister's trade minister Lord Green also admitted that Britain for many years had got its priorities wrong by focusing excessively on Brazil at the expense of Mexico. Britain and Mexico have signed an agreement to try to double trade by 2015 to \u00a34.2bn.Cameron was in Mexico City to hold talks with outgoing President Felip\u00e9 Calderon who had just completed the arduous task of chairing the G20 Summit in Los Cabos, a two-hour flight away on the Pacific coast. The two men made brief statements to the press in the overcast gardens of Los Pinos, the Presidential residence, vowing to strengthen commercial links.The prime minister had earlier met business leaders, including the world's richest man Carlos Slim (worth $50bn) and introduced a UK business delegation that includes green energy companies and the ceramicist Emma Bridgewater.Mexico, due to grow by 4% this year, has a surging manufacturing industry and growing middle class. Calderon pointed out the economy was creating 600,000 jobs a year. Britain is the fifth largest foreign investor in Mexico, but nearly four fifths of Mexican trade is with the US.Cameron said he wanted to step up trade links with countries like Mexico because \"the eurozone is currently stagnant and that may continue for a while\".Calderon is expected to be replaced, following elections in a fortnight, by Enrique Pena Nieto the leader of the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party. The PRI ran Mexico for 70 years but lost power in 2010.At a business event, Green pointed out Mexico's ranking in the World Bank's ease of doing business index is higher than Brazil's, and yet Brazil gets more attention in the British public mind than Mexico does.Green pointed out that Mexico outpaced Brazil in terms of GDP growth last year and is on course to do the same this year.Referring to the emerging economies dynamism Lord Green said \"This isn't just a flash in the pan. This isn't just something that will be true in the next year or two or three. No, this is going to be the trend for the next generation,\"\"The centre of the world's gravity is shifting from the west to east (and) from the north to south. Mexico is becoming \u2026 a diverse growing economy that is more and more interesting to British business.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "David Cameron", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Politics"], "title": "David Cameron launches charm offensive in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-05-04T10:54:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The morning after attending a panel discussion about the murders of Mexican journalists I am sad to report more killings.On world press freedom day, the dismembered bodies of three press photographers - Gabriel Huge, Guillermo Luna and Esteban Rodr\u00edguez - were recovered from a shallow canal in the Mexican port city of Veracruz. A fourth body, that of Luna's girlfriend, Irasema Becerra, was found alongside them.The deaths follow within a week of the murder of another Veracruz journalist, Regina Martinez, who was a crime reporter for the national news magazine, Proceso. She was strangled to death at her home in the city of Xalapa.Police said that the bodies of Huge and Luna, which were wrapped in plastic bags, showed signs of torture. They used to work for the newspaper Notiver, which has dared to cover the activities of drug cartels.They later quit and left the state for their own safety, but had recently returned to work for a website called Veracruz News. The latest murders underline Veracruz's current status as the most extreme focal point for attacks against journalists. These have become commonplace in Mexico since President Felipe Calderon launched an offensive against the drug cartels in December 2006 and extreme violence exploded across the country.The region has been the scene of a bloody battle for control of drug-trafficking routes between two of Mexico's most powerful gangs - the Zetas and the Gulf Cartel. Ricardo Gonzalez, of the press freedom activist group Article 19, said journalists in Veracruz are being targeted because of their position \"as witnesses to the decomposition of the state.\"He said said there had been \"absolutely no advances\" in the investigation of any of the previous murders of journalists in Veracruz. Last June, Miguel \u00c1ngel L\u00f3pez Velasco, Notiver's editorial director, was shot dead along with his wife and one of his children. A month later, Yolanda Ordaz de la Cruz, one of the paper's police reporters, was found with her throat slit. According to Gonzalez, the state authorities have tended to hint that such killings were motivated by personal troubles, or filed them away as the work of the cartels.This conveniently ignores the fact that corruption means it is often difficult to define where the authorities stop and organised crime begins.Indeed, that very point about corruption was made several times over during last night's seminar by members of the panel and people in the audience, including Mexican journalists.The event was held to mark the launch of a photo exhibition in The Guardian foyer in memory of murdered Mexican journalists. Called The silenced: fighting for press freedom in Mexico, it will run until 13 May.The exhibition is organised by the Catholic Overseas Development Agency (CAFOD) in company with The Guardian and the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ).Sources: BBC/The Guardian/New York Times", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "The Guardian"], "title": "Four journalists murdered in Mexico in a week"},{"date": "2012-06-26T19:56:18Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Imagine David and Samantha Cameron getting themselves written into an episode of the Archers during an election campaign. The governor of Monterrey and his wife appeared in a cameo role in the Mexican version of Ugly Betty, and that is the least of it.In Mexico, political product placement is a highly organised and lucrative business. We report on claims that a secretive unit was set up inside Televisa, the world's largest Spanish-language broadcaster, to promote the favourite in Mexico's presidential campaign, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. Televisa, which denies the allegation, is not necessarily loyal to Pe\u00f1a Nieto's party, the Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI). It has dealt pragmatically in the past with rivals such as the conservative National Action party (PAN) and the leftwing party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD). Its loyalty appears to be to a power structure, not necessarily its temporary tenants. The story does, however, say much about the state of Mexico, and its lack of transparency and accountability 12 years into its democratic transition.It has been a history of failure, not just of the outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n and his disastrous war on drugs, which if anything weakened the country's institutional capacity to deal with the drug barons, but also of Vicente Fox before him, who promised much, but did nothing about cleaning up the old political structure \u2013 instead this has been rebranded, using the telegenic face of Pe\u00f1a Nieto. PRI's makeover is clever. It has managed to confect a soft nostalgia around the memory of its hegemonic rule for most of the last century. Pe\u00f1a Nieto's message is that he knows how to get things done, that he will bring results.Pe\u00f1a Nieto denies a special relationship with Televisa, which grew from a radio station in 1930 to an empire which, it is suggested, turned news into PRI propaganda and slanted entertainment shows. In the past they used telenovelas to preach to Mexicans to know their place and be happy with their lot. Today the unit known as \"Team Handcock\" is said to use social media and YouTube to launder their political message. One contract we publish actually states that the aim is to produce \"videos that mock some of the errors and weak points of the National Action party\".Most of the above could just as accurately be written about an election in America or Britain. As we are daily being made only too aware, the relationship between our media and politicians is all too symbiotic. The point is not that this sort of thing happens everywhere, but that it subverts democracy wherever it occurs. It appears Mexican voters are being lulled into accepting political manipulation. With the honourable exception of the Yo Soy 132 student-led movement, the depressing thing is that these tactics generally work.\u2022 This article was amended on 26 June 2012. The original did not follow the usual Spanish-speaking style for Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto's surname. This has been corrected", "tags": ["Mexico", "Televisa", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Media"], "title": "Mexico: and in the next episode \u2026 | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-20T22:10:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "David Cameron launched a one-day charm offensive in Mexico City in a bid to boost British business interests in Mexico, the second largest economy in Latin America, pointing out Mexico will be one of the world's five largest economies by 2050. Britain currently supplies less than 1% of Mexico's imports.The prime minister's trade minister Lord Green also admitted that Britain for many years had got its priorities wrong by focusing excessively on Brazil at the expense of Mexico. Britain and Mexico have signed an agreement to try to double trade by 2015 to \u00a34.2bn.Cameron was in Mexico City to hold talks with outgoing President Felip\u00e9 Calderon who had just completed the arduous task of chairing the G20 Summit in Los Cabos, a two-hour flight away on the Pacific coast. The two men made brief statements to the press in the overcast gardens of Los Pinos, the Presidential residence, vowing to strengthen commercial links.The prime minister had earlier met business leaders, including the world's richest man Carlos Slim (worth $50bn) and introduced a UK business delegation that includes green energy companies and the ceramicist Emma Bridgewater.Mexico, due to grow by 4% this year, has a surging manufacturing industry and growing middle class. Calderon pointed out the economy was creating 600,000 jobs a year. Britain is the fifth largest foreign investor in Mexico, but nearly four fifths of Mexican trade is with the US.Cameron said he wanted to step up trade links with countries like Mexico because \"the eurozone is currently stagnant and that may continue for a while\".Calderon is expected to be replaced, following elections in a fortnight, by Enrique Pena Nieto the leader of the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party. The PRI ran Mexico for 70 years but lost power in 2010.At a business event, Green pointed out Mexico's ranking in the World Bank's ease of doing business index is higher than Brazil's, and yet Brazil gets more attention in the British public mind than Mexico does.Green pointed out that Mexico outpaced Brazil in terms of GDP growth last year and is on course to do the same this year.Referring to the emerging economies dynamism Lord Green said \"This isn't just a flash in the pan. This isn't just something that will be true in the next year or two or three. No, this is going to be the trend for the next generation,\"\"The centre of the world's gravity is shifting from the west to east (and) from the north to south. Mexico is becoming \u2026 a diverse growing economy that is more and more interesting to British business.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "David Cameron", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Politics"], "title": "David Cameron launches charm offensive in Mexico"},{"date": "2012-05-04T10:54:10Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The morning after attending a panel discussion about the murders of Mexican journalists I am sad to report more killings.On world press freedom day, the dismembered bodies of three press photographers - Gabriel Huge, Guillermo Luna and Esteban Rodr\u00edguez - were recovered from a shallow canal in the Mexican port city of Veracruz. A fourth body, that of Luna's girlfriend, Irasema Becerra, was found alongside them.The deaths follow within a week of the murder of another Veracruz journalist, Regina Martinez, who was a crime reporter for the national news magazine, Proceso. She was strangled to death at her home in the city of Xalapa.Police said that the bodies of Huge and Luna, which were wrapped in plastic bags, showed signs of torture. They used to work for the newspaper Notiver, which has dared to cover the activities of drug cartels.They later quit and left the state for their own safety, but had recently returned to work for a website called Veracruz News. The latest murders underline Veracruz's current status as the most extreme focal point for attacks against journalists. These have become commonplace in Mexico since President Felipe Calderon launched an offensive against the drug cartels in December 2006 and extreme violence exploded across the country.The region has been the scene of a bloody battle for control of drug-trafficking routes between two of Mexico's most powerful gangs - the Zetas and the Gulf Cartel. Ricardo Gonzalez, of the press freedom activist group Article 19, said journalists in Veracruz are being targeted because of their position \"as witnesses to the decomposition of the state.\"He said said there had been \"absolutely no advances\" in the investigation of any of the previous murders of journalists in Veracruz. Last June, Miguel \u00c1ngel L\u00f3pez Velasco, Notiver's editorial director, was shot dead along with his wife and one of his children. A month later, Yolanda Ordaz de la Cruz, one of the paper's police reporters, was found with her throat slit. According to Gonzalez, the state authorities have tended to hint that such killings were motivated by personal troubles, or filed them away as the work of the cartels.This conveniently ignores the fact that corruption means it is often difficult to define where the authorities stop and organised crime begins.Indeed, that very point about corruption was made several times over during last night's seminar by members of the panel and people in the audience, including Mexican journalists.The event was held to mark the launch of a photo exhibition in The Guardian foyer in memory of murdered Mexican journalists. Called The silenced: fighting for press freedom in Mexico, it will run until 13 May.The exhibition is organised by the Catholic Overseas Development Agency (CAFOD) in company with The Guardian and the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ).Sources: BBC/The Guardian/New York Times", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Mexico", "Press freedom", "Americas", "The Guardian"], "title": "Four journalists murdered in Mexico in a week"},{"date": "2012-04-30T18:48:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP is planning to start three new oil drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico this year. The launch of the new rigs will bring the number of BP rigs in the Gulf to eight \u2013 more than the oil giant had before the devastating Deepwater Horizon disaster three years ago.Bernard Looney, BP's executive in charge of new wells, said BP is expecting to spend $4bn (\u00a32.5bn) on new developments in the Gulf of Mexico this year and hopes to \"invest at least that much every year over the next decade\".\"After much soul-searching in the fall of 2010, we concluded it would be wrong to walk away [from the Gulf of Mexico],\" Looney said at an offshore oil conference in Houston, Texas, on Monday. \"We would have been walking away not only from our past, but from a key component of our future.\"He said the Deepwater Horizon disaster, which killed 11 people, had \"challenged us to the core\", but said the company has been working hard to help prevent \"such an accident from ever happening again\".While conceding that BP was in \"absolutely no position to preach\", he called on the industry to adopt broader safety standards.Last October US regulators granted BP its first permit to drill a new well since the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, that spewed 4.9m barrels of oil into the fragile Gulf of Mexico ecosystem. The permit, for drilling in BP's Kaskida field 250 miles south-west of New Orleans, was approved after BP's well design met more stringent post-spill standards.Looney did not state where the new rigs will drill, but industry figures said they expect an appraisal well in BP's \"giant\" Tiber field 250 miles south-west of New Orleans. BP has long wanted to explore the area it discovered in 2009, but had been banned by regulators.The company's next big project, Mad Dog phase 2, is expected to start production towards the end of the decade. Looney said the field, which was discovered in 1998 and first began producing oil in 2005, holds more than 4bn barrels of oil \u2013 enough to promote it to the \"super-giant\" oil field category.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "US news", "World news", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Environment"], "title": "BP to start three new Gulf of Mexico oil rigs"},{"date": "2012-07-02T06:35:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI) is poised to regain the power it lost 12 years ago after seven decades in charge of the country.The official quick count of a large sample of polling stations announced late on Sunday gave the PRI's candidate, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, around 38% of the vote and a lead of around seven percentage points over his nearest rival.\"This Sunday Mexico won\", Pe\u00f1a Nieto said at his party's headquarters in the capital to the strains of a popular mariachi song, accompanied by his soap opera star wife and children. \"Mexico voted for change with direction,\" he added.During his speech, the slick, telegenic former governor of the country's most populous state was at pains to address fears that a PRI comeback would mean a return to the periodic authoritarianism, corruption and corporatist hubris that had characterised the party's political hegemony for most of the last century.\"Mine will be a democratic presidency. We are a new generation and there will not be a return to the past,\" he said. \"In today's plural and democratic Mexico everybody has a place.\"The candidate has also faced protests by students who shook up the electoral campaign with a movement that rejected his candidacy as a step back in the country's fledgling democracy, and focused attention on alleged bias in his favour by the media.Pe\u00f1a Nieto spoke shortly after his nearest rival in the quick count, Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador of the leftwing Party of Democratic Revolution (PRD), told his supporters he would wait until he had \"all the information\" before stating his formal position.The count gave him around 31% of the vote.\"The last word has not been spoken,\" L\u00f3pez Obrador said.Despite claiming the campaign had not been fair and suggesting his own data differed from the official figures released so far, L\u00f3pez Obrador's measured tones contrasted sharply with the radicalism that marked his refusal to accept defeat at the last presidential election six years ago. On that occasion his claims of fraud sparked a bitter post-election political crisis that lasted the entire five-month transition period.The governing National Action party (PAN) and its candidate Josefina V\u00e1zquez Mota were the unquestioned losers of the night. The quick count gave the first female presidential candidate ever to stand for a major Mexican political party around 25.5% of the ballots.Surrounded by members of her campaign, the candidate smiled throughout her acceptance of defeat early on in the night. She nevertheless had words of warning about a possible return to authoritarianism as well as for her own party, whom she urged to return to its origins in citizen organisation.V\u00e1zquez Mota's bid was hampered by widespread frustration at the brutal drug war that rages in many part of the country and the mediocre economic growth that has accompanied two successive PAN administrations, first under Vicente Fox and then under Felipe Calder\u00f3n.She also received little obvious help from Calder\u00f3n, who chose not to push the limits of legal restrictions on his own political activity during the three-month campaign as previous presidents have done.The election was peppered with reports of vote buying and other irregularities, but nothing that immediately appeared as something that could make up such a large difference.The president of the National Election Institute, Lenardo Valdez, hailed the election as \"exemplary\" and claimed that with it \"we have consolidated our electoral democracy\". He said turnout had been healthy at over 62%.While Pe\u00f1a Nieto's lead seems irreversible, it is smaller than many had predicted. Most pre-election polling had suggested he would win by well over 10 percentage points.The figures imply that the PRI is unlikely to be able to complement its control of the presidency with control of the legislature, which the electorate also voted for on Sunday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Pe\u00f1a Nieto claims victory in Mexico elections"},{"date": "2012-07-02T06:35:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI) is poised to regain the power it lost 12 years ago after seven decades in charge of the country.The official quick count of a large sample of polling stations announced late on Sunday gave the PRI's candidate, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, around 38% of the vote and a lead of around seven percentage points over his nearest rival.\"This Sunday Mexico won\", Pe\u00f1a Nieto said at his party's headquarters in the capital to the strains of a popular mariachi song, accompanied by his soap opera star wife and children. \"Mexico voted for change with direction,\" he added.During his speech, the slick, telegenic former governor of the country's most populous state was at pains to address fears that a PRI comeback would mean a return to the periodic authoritarianism, corruption and corporatist hubris that had characterised the party's political hegemony for most of the last century.\"Mine will be a democratic presidency. We are a new generation and there will not be a return to the past,\" he said. \"In today's plural and democratic Mexico everybody has a place.\"The candidate has also faced protests by students who shook up the electoral campaign with a movement that rejected his candidacy as a step back in the country's fledgling democracy, and focused attention on alleged bias in his favour by the media.Pe\u00f1a Nieto spoke shortly after his nearest rival in the quick count, Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador of the leftwing Party of Democratic Revolution (PRD), told his supporters he would wait until he had \"all the information\" before stating his formal position.The count gave him around 31% of the vote.\"The last word has not been spoken,\" L\u00f3pez Obrador said.Despite claiming the campaign had not been fair and suggesting his own data differed from the official figures released so far, L\u00f3pez Obrador's measured tones contrasted sharply with the radicalism that marked his refusal to accept defeat at the last presidential election six years ago. On that occasion his claims of fraud sparked a bitter post-election political crisis that lasted the entire five-month transition period.The governing National Action party (PAN) and its candidate Josefina V\u00e1zquez Mota were the unquestioned losers of the night. The quick count gave the first female presidential candidate ever to stand for a major Mexican political party around 25.5% of the ballots.Surrounded by members of her campaign, the candidate smiled throughout her acceptance of defeat early on in the night. She nevertheless had words of warning about a possible return to authoritarianism as well as for her own party, whom she urged to return to its origins in citizen organisation.V\u00e1zquez Mota's bid was hampered by widespread frustration at the brutal drug war that rages in many part of the country and the mediocre economic growth that has accompanied two successive PAN administrations, first under Vicente Fox and then under Felipe Calder\u00f3n.She also received little obvious help from Calder\u00f3n, who chose not to push the limits of legal restrictions on his own political activity during the three-month campaign as previous presidents have done.The election was peppered with reports of vote buying and other irregularities, but nothing that immediately appeared as something that could make up such a large difference.The president of the National Election Institute, Lenardo Valdez, hailed the election as \"exemplary\" and claimed that with it \"we have consolidated our electoral democracy\". He said turnout had been healthy at over 62%.While Pe\u00f1a Nieto's lead seems irreversible, it is smaller than many had predicted. Most pre-election polling had suggested he would win by well over 10 percentage points.The figures imply that the PRI is unlikely to be able to complement its control of the presidency with control of the legislature, which the electorate also voted for on Sunday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Pe\u00f1a Nieto claims victory in Mexico elections"},{"date": "2012-09-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico governor Susana Martinez has asked her administration to remove a reference to \"forcible rape\" from a new state policy, after its use was criticised by women's groups.The outdated and inaccurate language, which effectively narrows the definition of rape, became the subject of heated debate in August after Republican Missouri senate nominee Todd Akin used the term \"legitimate rape\" in describing his anti-abortion views.The Huffington Post reported on Wednesday that the term appeared in the New Mexico's proposed changes to its official applications to childcare assistance. The state's children, youth and families department was proposing changes to its means-testing policy for childcare assistance that would exempt only victims of \"forcible rape\" and incest from having to file child support claims against the father.Women's and family groups reacted angrily, saying that using such language made a distinction between \"forcible\" and other rapes, even though all rapes involve force. It would also, critics said, push victims of rapes not considered \"forcible\" \u2013 such as statutory rape of a minor \u2013 to contact their rapists to pursue them for child support before being eligible for childcare assistance.No-one at the state's CYFD was available for comment.Enrique Knell, a spokesperson for the CYFD, told the Huffington Post that Martinez, a Republican, asked the department to remove the word \"forcible\" from the language on Wednesday night.\"It's redundant, unnecessary, and she [Martinez] doesn't support its usage,\" Knell said.He said the CYFD had used such language because the FBI still uses the definition, as do some federal regulations relating to paternity disputes.Martinez, a former district attorney, also used the words \"forcible rape\" in a proclamation about New Mexico's Sexual awareness month in April.Carol Tracy, the executive director of Woman's Law Project, which has long campaigned for the definition of \"forcible rape\" to be changed, welcomed Martinez's removal of the term.She said: \"It is a good move, a progressive move. Because rape is force enough.\"The definition of rape used by the FBI in its Uniform Crime Report was revised from \"forcible rape\" to rape in January this year. Rape is now defined federally as: \"The penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.\"However, states vary in their definition of rape.Attorney general Eric Holder, announcing the changes earlier this year, said: \"The longstanding, narrow definition of forcible rape, first established in 1927, is 'the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will.' It thus included only forcible male penile penetration of a female vagina and excluded oral and anal penetration; rape of males; penetration of the vagina and anus with an object or body part other than the penis; rape of females by females; and non-forcible rape.\"\u2022 We originally referred to Susana Martinez as a former attorney general. We should have said district attorney. This has now been changed.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Rape", "US crime", "US news", "World news", "Society"], "title": "New Mexico governor removes 'forcible rape' language from state policy"},{"date": "2012-07-02T06:35:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI) is poised to regain the power it lost 12 years ago after seven decades in charge of the country.The official quick count of a large sample of polling stations announced late on Sunday gave the PRI's candidate, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, around 38% of the vote and a lead of around seven percentage points over his nearest rival.\"This Sunday Mexico won\", Pe\u00f1a Nieto said at his party's headquarters in the capital to the strains of a popular mariachi song, accompanied by his soap opera star wife and children. \"Mexico voted for change with direction,\" he added.During his speech, the slick, telegenic former governor of the country's most populous state was at pains to address fears that a PRI comeback would mean a return to the periodic authoritarianism, corruption and corporatist hubris that had characterised the party's political hegemony for most of the last century.\"Mine will be a democratic presidency. We are a new generation and there will not be a return to the past,\" he said. \"In today's plural and democratic Mexico everybody has a place.\"The candidate has also faced protests by students who shook up the electoral campaign with a movement that rejected his candidacy as a step back in the country's fledgling democracy, and focused attention on alleged bias in his favour by the media.Pe\u00f1a Nieto spoke shortly after his nearest rival in the quick count, Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador of the leftwing Party of Democratic Revolution (PRD), told his supporters he would wait until he had \"all the information\" before stating his formal position.The count gave him around 31% of the vote.\"The last word has not been spoken,\" L\u00f3pez Obrador said.Despite claiming the campaign had not been fair and suggesting his own data differed from the official figures released so far, L\u00f3pez Obrador's measured tones contrasted sharply with the radicalism that marked his refusal to accept defeat at the last presidential election six years ago. On that occasion his claims of fraud sparked a bitter post-election political crisis that lasted the entire five-month transition period.The governing National Action party (PAN) and its candidate Josefina V\u00e1zquez Mota were the unquestioned losers of the night. The quick count gave the first female presidential candidate ever to stand for a major Mexican political party around 25.5% of the ballots.Surrounded by members of her campaign, the candidate smiled throughout her acceptance of defeat early on in the night. She nevertheless had words of warning about a possible return to authoritarianism as well as for her own party, whom she urged to return to its origins in citizen organisation.V\u00e1zquez Mota's bid was hampered by widespread frustration at the brutal drug war that rages in many part of the country and the mediocre economic growth that has accompanied two successive PAN administrations, first under Vicente Fox and then under Felipe Calder\u00f3n.She also received little obvious help from Calder\u00f3n, who chose not to push the limits of legal restrictions on his own political activity during the three-month campaign as previous presidents have done.The election was peppered with reports of vote buying and other irregularities, but nothing that immediately appeared as something that could make up such a large difference.The president of the National Election Institute, Lenardo Valdez, hailed the election as \"exemplary\" and claimed that with it \"we have consolidated our electoral democracy\". He said turnout had been healthy at over 62%.While Pe\u00f1a Nieto's lead seems irreversible, it is smaller than many had predicted. Most pre-election polling had suggested he would win by well over 10 percentage points.The figures imply that the PRI is unlikely to be able to complement its control of the presidency with control of the legislature, which the electorate also voted for on Sunday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Pe\u00f1a Nieto claims victory in Mexico elections"},{"date": "2012-09-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico governor Susana Martinez has asked her administration to remove a reference to \"forcible rape\" from a new state policy, after its use was criticised by women's groups.The outdated and inaccurate language, which effectively narrows the definition of rape, became the subject of heated debate in August after Republican Missouri senate nominee Todd Akin used the term \"legitimate rape\" in describing his anti-abortion views.The Huffington Post reported on Wednesday that the term appeared in the New Mexico's proposed changes to its official applications to childcare assistance. The state's children, youth and families department was proposing changes to its means-testing policy for childcare assistance that would exempt only victims of \"forcible rape\" and incest from having to file child support claims against the father.Women's and family groups reacted angrily, saying that using such language made a distinction between \"forcible\" and other rapes, even though all rapes involve force. It would also, critics said, push victims of rapes not considered \"forcible\" \u2013 such as statutory rape of a minor \u2013 to contact their rapists to pursue them for child support before being eligible for childcare assistance.No-one at the state's CYFD was available for comment.Enrique Knell, a spokesperson for the CYFD, told the Huffington Post that Martinez, a Republican, asked the department to remove the word \"forcible\" from the language on Wednesday night.\"It's redundant, unnecessary, and she [Martinez] doesn't support its usage,\" Knell said.He said the CYFD had used such language because the FBI still uses the definition, as do some federal regulations relating to paternity disputes.Martinez, a former district attorney, also used the words \"forcible rape\" in a proclamation about New Mexico's Sexual awareness month in April.Carol Tracy, the executive director of Woman's Law Project, which has long campaigned for the definition of \"forcible rape\" to be changed, welcomed Martinez's removal of the term.She said: \"It is a good move, a progressive move. Because rape is force enough.\"The definition of rape used by the FBI in its Uniform Crime Report was revised from \"forcible rape\" to rape in January this year. Rape is now defined federally as: \"The penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.\"However, states vary in their definition of rape.Attorney general Eric Holder, announcing the changes earlier this year, said: \"The longstanding, narrow definition of forcible rape, first established in 1927, is 'the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will.' It thus included only forcible male penile penetration of a female vagina and excluded oral and anal penetration; rape of males; penetration of the vagina and anus with an object or body part other than the penis; rape of females by females; and non-forcible rape.\"\u2022 We originally referred to Susana Martinez as a former attorney general. We should have said district attorney. This has now been changed.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Rape", "US crime", "US news", "World news", "Society"], "title": "New Mexico governor removes 'forcible rape' language from state policy"},{"date": "2012-09-10T13:53:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has continued its divestment programme by selling $5.55bn worth of Gulf of Mexico assets to US group Plains Exploration.The deal includes the Marlin, Dorado and King fields, as well as BP's stakes in Horn Mountain and Holstein. It brings the total proceeds from the sale programme instigated after the Deepwater Horizon disaster to $32bn, out of a total target of $38bn. BP's chief executive Bob Dudley said:Analysts said the company had received a good price for the assets, and BP's shares have added 2.85p to 437.55p. Peter Hutton at RBC Capital Markets said:", "tags": ["Business", "BP"], "title": "BP raises $5.55bn from sale of Gulf of Mexico assets"},{"date": "2012-07-02T06:35:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary party (PRI) is poised to regain the power it lost 12 years ago after seven decades in charge of the country.The official quick count of a large sample of polling stations announced late on Sunday gave the PRI's candidate, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, around 38% of the vote and a lead of around seven percentage points over his nearest rival.\"This Sunday Mexico won\", Pe\u00f1a Nieto said at his party's headquarters in the capital to the strains of a popular mariachi song, accompanied by his soap opera star wife and children. \"Mexico voted for change with direction,\" he added.During his speech, the slick, telegenic former governor of the country's most populous state was at pains to address fears that a PRI comeback would mean a return to the periodic authoritarianism, corruption and corporatist hubris that had characterised the party's political hegemony for most of the last century.\"Mine will be a democratic presidency. We are a new generation and there will not be a return to the past,\" he said. \"In today's plural and democratic Mexico everybody has a place.\"The candidate has also faced protests by students who shook up the electoral campaign with a movement that rejected his candidacy as a step back in the country's fledgling democracy, and focused attention on alleged bias in his favour by the media.Pe\u00f1a Nieto spoke shortly after his nearest rival in the quick count, Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador of the leftwing Party of Democratic Revolution (PRD), told his supporters he would wait until he had \"all the information\" before stating his formal position.The count gave him around 31% of the vote.\"The last word has not been spoken,\" L\u00f3pez Obrador said.Despite claiming the campaign had not been fair and suggesting his own data differed from the official figures released so far, L\u00f3pez Obrador's measured tones contrasted sharply with the radicalism that marked his refusal to accept defeat at the last presidential election six years ago. On that occasion his claims of fraud sparked a bitter post-election political crisis that lasted the entire five-month transition period.The governing National Action party (PAN) and its candidate Josefina V\u00e1zquez Mota were the unquestioned losers of the night. The quick count gave the first female presidential candidate ever to stand for a major Mexican political party around 25.5% of the ballots.Surrounded by members of her campaign, the candidate smiled throughout her acceptance of defeat early on in the night. She nevertheless had words of warning about a possible return to authoritarianism as well as for her own party, whom she urged to return to its origins in citizen organisation.V\u00e1zquez Mota's bid was hampered by widespread frustration at the brutal drug war that rages in many part of the country and the mediocre economic growth that has accompanied two successive PAN administrations, first under Vicente Fox and then under Felipe Calder\u00f3n.She also received little obvious help from Calder\u00f3n, who chose not to push the limits of legal restrictions on his own political activity during the three-month campaign as previous presidents have done.The election was peppered with reports of vote buying and other irregularities, but nothing that immediately appeared as something that could make up such a large difference.The president of the National Election Institute, Lenardo Valdez, hailed the election as \"exemplary\" and claimed that with it \"we have consolidated our electoral democracy\". He said turnout had been healthy at over 62%.While Pe\u00f1a Nieto's lead seems irreversible, it is smaller than many had predicted. Most pre-election polling had suggested he would win by well over 10 percentage points.The figures imply that the PRI is unlikely to be able to complement its control of the presidency with control of the legislature, which the electorate also voted for on Sunday.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Pe\u00f1a Nieto claims victory in Mexico elections"},{"date": "2012-09-20T22:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "New Mexico governor Susana Martinez has asked her administration to remove a reference to \"forcible rape\" from a new state policy, after its use was criticised by women's groups.The outdated and inaccurate language, which effectively narrows the definition of rape, became the subject of heated debate in August after Republican Missouri senate nominee Todd Akin used the term \"legitimate rape\" in describing his anti-abortion views.The Huffington Post reported on Wednesday that the term appeared in the New Mexico's proposed changes to its official applications to childcare assistance. The state's children, youth and families department was proposing changes to its means-testing policy for childcare assistance that would exempt only victims of \"forcible rape\" and incest from having to file child support claims against the father.Women's and family groups reacted angrily, saying that using such language made a distinction between \"forcible\" and other rapes, even though all rapes involve force. It would also, critics said, push victims of rapes not considered \"forcible\" \u2013 such as statutory rape of a minor \u2013 to contact their rapists to pursue them for child support before being eligible for childcare assistance.No-one at the state's CYFD was available for comment.Enrique Knell, a spokesperson for the CYFD, told the Huffington Post that Martinez, a Republican, asked the department to remove the word \"forcible\" from the language on Wednesday night.\"It's redundant, unnecessary, and she [Martinez] doesn't support its usage,\" Knell said.He said the CYFD had used such language because the FBI still uses the definition, as do some federal regulations relating to paternity disputes.Martinez, a former district attorney, also used the words \"forcible rape\" in a proclamation about New Mexico's Sexual awareness month in April.Carol Tracy, the executive director of Woman's Law Project, which has long campaigned for the definition of \"forcible rape\" to be changed, welcomed Martinez's removal of the term.She said: \"It is a good move, a progressive move. Because rape is force enough.\"The definition of rape used by the FBI in its Uniform Crime Report was revised from \"forcible rape\" to rape in January this year. Rape is now defined federally as: \"The penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.\"However, states vary in their definition of rape.Attorney general Eric Holder, announcing the changes earlier this year, said: \"The longstanding, narrow definition of forcible rape, first established in 1927, is 'the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will.' It thus included only forcible male penile penetration of a female vagina and excluded oral and anal penetration; rape of males; penetration of the vagina and anus with an object or body part other than the penis; rape of females by females; and non-forcible rape.\"\u2022 We originally referred to Susana Martinez as a former attorney general. We should have said district attorney. This has now been changed.", "tags": ["New Mexico", "Rape", "US crime", "US news", "World news", "Society"], "title": "New Mexico governor removes 'forcible rape' language from state policy"},{"date": "2012-09-10T13:53:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "BP has continued its divestment programme by selling $5.55bn worth of Gulf of Mexico assets to US group Plains Exploration.The deal includes the Marlin, Dorado and King fields, as well as BP's stakes in Horn Mountain and Holstein. It brings the total proceeds from the sale programme instigated after the Deepwater Horizon disaster to $32bn, out of a total target of $38bn. BP's chief executive Bob Dudley said:Analysts said the company had received a good price for the assets, and BP's shares have added 2.85p to 437.55p. Peter Hutton at RBC Capital Markets said:", "tags": ["Business", "BP"], "title": "BP raises $5.55bn from sale of Gulf of Mexico assets"},{"date": "2012-07-19T01:18:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The runner-up in Mexico's recent presidential election has added the charge of money laundering to his efforts to get the country's electoral tribunal to invalidate the victory of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI.Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador of the left wing Party of Democratic Revolution, or PRD, presented his challenge to the the electoral authorities last week. It contained 58 boxes of documents initially focused on allegations of extensive vote buying, systematic bias in the media, manipulated opinion polls and massive overspending.The additional charges centre on a bank called Monex and electronic cards it issues in bulk to clients for them to distribute.A small amount of these cards were directly linked to PRI activists in the central state of Guanajuato before the election in a complaint filed by the governing National Action Party, or PAN, whose candidate came in a poor third in the election on 1 July.\"Pe\u00f1a Nieto benefitted from funds of illicit origin, what is commonly called money laundering\" L\u00f3pez Obrador said at a press conference on Wednesday. \"It would be very serious if the authorities did not investigate. They would be covering up a crime.\"Since the election further questions have arisen around Monex from invoices detailing large purchases of the cards by two companies during the electoral period. Investigations by local media have found that these companies do not appear to exist, at least not at the addresses given on the documents.L\u00f3pez Obrador has now produced new documents claiming to show large deposits made in Monex accounts by other companies that it claims are equally questionable. The documents include information that appears to be from official records indicating that one of these depositing companies was registered on the same day with the same shareholders as one of the companies cited in the invoices detailing purchased cards.Joining the dots, L\u00f3pez Obrador's team is claiming that money of deliberately hidden origin that probably came from either \"illegally directed public funds or organised crime\" was secretly funneled into the PRI campaign through Monex and its clients. The allegations also come in the context of the embarrassment caused in Mexico by the US Senate revelations about rampant money laundering through HSBC Mexico.The PRI, that has repeatedly rejected all claims of dirty tricks as groundless, issued a statement accusing L\u00f3pez Obrador of desperation. \"The only thing this new lie achieves is the escalation of the irrationality of his arguments,\" the statement said.With the tribunal not expected to rule on L\u00f3pez Obrador's challenge to the election until early September, Pe\u00f1a Nieto himself has focused on cementing his claim to the presidency with statesmanlike interviews and formal meetings, including one with incumbent President Felipe Calder\u00f3n on Tuesday.\"I hope that the political parties will embrace a democratic attitude and respect the result of this election,\" he told a press conference shortly before L\u00f3pez Obrador revealed his latest allegations.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "Mexico presidential runner-up alleges money laundering in election"},{"date": "2012-11-21T10:20:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tequila has firm roots in British drinking culture, typically served in a shot glass with a smattering of salt followed by amnesia and a wince. But it's taken a while for mescal, its stronger and tastier forefather, to emerge from the Mexican countryside. In fact, it's only just become popular in metropolitan Mexico itself.Mescal is the original agave spirit of which tequila is just one version, and genuinely \"artisan\" in that the vast majority is still made in dusty-floored family distilleries no larger than a double decker bus. It's made by slowly roasting the agave heart in underground pit ovens (which gives the finished product a smoky flavour), then mashing them to extract the juice which is fermented and distilled. Nothing else is added, the only extra being naturally-occurring yeasts that float in from the outback. Its simplicity means the people who make it think of mescal as more like wine than a spirit, despite it having an average ABV of 50%.In the southern Mexican countryside they actually call mescal \"vino\" as it's drunk in wine glasses before, during and after dinner as it has been for centuries. They must have a riot in the wilderness, as this nectar creates a funky buzz - it's uplifting while most alcoholic drinks are depressants. After a while it's even stimulating. The taste is unparalleled \u2013 briny, musty and peaty like some scotch - but the warmth it creates is the main charm.With all that it's got going for it, it seems strange that it's been the preserve of pastoral old-timers for so long, but the majority of urban Mexicans are aspirational souls who prefer newness to tradition. However, in the last 15 years this mindset has changed and a new generation has embraced its home-grown culture and started shouting about it.While visitors to Mexico have long known of and enjoyed mescal, about five years ago word hit San Francisco, New York, and then Berlin. Now the drink has come to the UK and a couple of dedicated \"mezcalerias\" have now opened in London (Qui Qui Ri Qui in Hackney and Wahaca's new Charlotte Street mezcalaria). You can also find it in good Mexican restaurants, although it's by no means spreading like wildfire - importing it requires dealing directly with tiny distilleries, many of whom can't afford the trademark and branding required to actually export.If you do find yourself heading to a mezcalaria, arrive replete. Always sip it (if you ask for a slammer you're likely to be barred) with a side of chilli-sprinkled orange slices, although roasted grasshoppers or fried larvae are more popular back in Oaxaca. Lengthen the experience with cold Mexican lager and plenty of water. Have no preconceptions when it comes to flavour (Qui Qui Ri Qui's idiosyncratic tasting notes include phrases such as \"lighter fuel and barbecue sauce\") but you're likely to get smoke and chilli notes.You can test a mescal's quality by rubbing a bit on the back of your hand - if it goes sticky it contains unnatural sugars. A pure, craft mescal shouldn't even give you a hangover (I can verify this, kind of), and ask to have a good look at the bottle you're drinking from - it will usually be hand signed and plastered with colourful, abstract Zapotec graphics.Also, get in there quick. UK mescalheads (their term, not mine) are already worried the spirit will go the same way as tequila - watered down and industrialised. Large investment groups are already building huge factories to produce up to 100,000 litres a day \u2013 your average family distillery churns out around 3,000 annually. For an experience that's more Oaxaca coastline than first year frat party, try it very soon.", "tags": ["Mexican food and drink", "Spirits", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Mescal: the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2012-11-21T10:20:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Tequila has firm roots in British drinking culture, typically served in a shot glass with a smattering of salt followed by amnesia and a wince. But it's taken a while for mescal, its stronger and tastier forefather, to emerge from the Mexican countryside. In fact, it's only just become popular in metropolitan Mexico itself.Mescal is the original agave spirit of which tequila is just one version, and genuinely \"artisan\" in that the vast majority is still made in dusty-floored family distilleries no larger than a double decker bus. It's made by slowly roasting the agave heart in underground pit ovens (which gives the finished product a smoky flavour), then mashing them to extract the juice which is fermented and distilled. Nothing else is added, the only extra being naturally-occurring yeasts that float in from the outback. Its simplicity means the people who make it think of mescal as more like wine than a spirit, despite it having an average ABV of 50%.In the southern Mexican countryside they actually call mescal \"vino\" as it's drunk in wine glasses before, during and after dinner as it has been for centuries. They must have a riot in the wilderness, as this nectar creates a funky buzz - it's uplifting while most alcoholic drinks are depressants. After a while it's even stimulating. The taste is unparalleled \u2013 briny, musty and peaty like some scotch - but the warmth it creates is the main charm.With all that it's got going for it, it seems strange that it's been the preserve of pastoral old-timers for so long, but the majority of urban Mexicans are aspirational souls who prefer newness to tradition. However, in the last 15 years this mindset has changed and a new generation has embraced its home-grown culture and started shouting about it.While visitors to Mexico have long known of and enjoyed mescal, about five years ago word hit San Francisco, New York, and then Berlin. Now the drink has come to the UK and a couple of dedicated \"mezcalerias\" have now opened in London (Qui Qui Ri Qui in Hackney and Wahaca's new Charlotte Street mezcalaria). You can also find it in good Mexican restaurants, although it's by no means spreading like wildfire - importing it requires dealing directly with tiny distilleries, many of whom can't afford the trademark and branding required to actually export.If you do find yourself heading to a mezcalaria, arrive replete. Always sip it (if you ask for a slammer you're likely to be barred) with a side of chilli-sprinkled orange slices, although roasted grasshoppers or fried larvae are more popular back in Oaxaca. Lengthen the experience with cold Mexican lager and plenty of water. Have no preconceptions when it comes to flavour (Qui Qui Ri Qui's idiosyncratic tasting notes include phrases such as \"lighter fuel and barbecue sauce\") but you're likely to get smoke and chilli notes.You can test a mescal's quality by rubbing a bit on the back of your hand - if it goes sticky it contains unnatural sugars. A pure, craft mescal shouldn't even give you a hangover (I can verify this, kind of), and ask to have a good look at the bottle you're drinking from - it will usually be hand signed and plastered with colourful, abstract Zapotec graphics.Also, get in there quick. UK mescalheads (their term, not mine) are already worried the spirit will go the same way as tequila - watered down and industrialised. Large investment groups are already building huge factories to produce up to 100,000 litres a day \u2013 your average family distillery churns out around 3,000 annually. For an experience that's more Oaxaca coastline than first year frat party, try it very soon.", "tags": ["Mexican food and drink", "Spirits", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Mescal: the spirit of Mexico"},{"date": "2012-12-11T02:32:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "HSBC is expected to admit on Tuesday it has settled allegations of running money for Mexican drug barons for a larger than expected $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), barely 24 hours after close rival Standard Chartered admitted paying $670m (\u00a3415m) in penalties to US regulators to settle allegations it broke sanctions on Iran.The $1.9bn that HSBC will pay to the US authorities exceeds the $1.5bn it had warned it could cost to settle the allegations raised in a damning US Senate report in the summer which came amid a wave of scandals to hit the banking sector.HSBC is expected to confirm it has struck the agreement which has already led to the departure of compliance head David Bagley and put pressure on former chairman Lord Green, now a trade minister.The bank is expected to admit violating US laws meant to prohibit money laundering including the Bank Secrecy Act and the Trading with the Enemy Act. The deal is expected to include a settlement with the powerful Manhattan district attorney's office and a deferred prosecution agreement with both the Justice department and Treasury department.Ahead of the settlement, HSBC on Monday named a former US official as head of group financial crime compliance, a newly created role, as the bank prepared for the fine related to drug allegations. Bob Werner, who used to work for the US treasury, will create a global financial intelligence unit to conduct internal investigations at HSBC.Peter Henning, a professor of law at Wayne State University, said: \"If the numbers are right, this is going to get everybody's attention. The worst situation would be if the charges were for money laundering but it looks like this is a deferred prosecution relating to books and record controls, that gives the bank some wiggle room in terms of its explanations. But the size of the fine means the bottom line is this is very significant.\"Henning said the fine would have a significant \"reputational impact\" and HSBC would have to be very careful in future. \"You get one black mark. If something like this comes up again in the US, the authorities are not going to be very forgiving.\"European banks seemed to have under estimated the prosecutorial zeal of the US authorities, he said. \"We have had Standard Chartered and now this and we still have more Libor cases to come.\" US authorities are investigating banks involved in the alleged manipulation of London's Libor, the key measure for setting loan rates around the world.Britain's banks are braced for fines following the \u00a3290m penalty slapped on Barclays \u2013 now vastly exceeded by the amounts levied by US regulators for breaching sanctions and laundering money.The fines on Standard Chartered follow accusations that lax systems left the US financial system vulnerable to \"drug kingpins\" and terrorists.Standard Chartered is paying $327m to the US Federal Reserve, the US justice department and the New York district attorney, it was announced yesterday, following a settlement of $340m in August with the New York department of financial services.The bruising episode for Standard Chartered, which until the summer was regarded to have preserved its reputation through the banking crisis, also includes the bank being forced set up \"acceptable\" compliance programmes. Cyrus Vance, the Manhattan district attorney, said: \"Banks occupy positions of trust. It is a bedrock principle that they must deal honestly with their regulators.My office will accept nothing less \u2013 too much is at stake for the people of this country.\" The Fed, which is receiving $100m of the Standard Chartered fines, said it was imposing \"one of the largest penalties\" it had ever announced for \"alleged unsafe and unsound practices\" adopted by the bank.\"Under the cease and desist order Standard Chartered must improve its programme for compliance with US economic sanctions, the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money-laundering requirements,\" the Fed said. The Financial Services Authority, the UK watchdog, has agreed to assist in the supervision of the order.The department of justice and the district attorney for New York County have entered into \"deferred prosecution agreements\" for which the bank which will pay $227m. The bank has also settled with the Office of Foreign Assets Control (Ofac) but the settlement of $132m is offset against other penalties.Standard Chartered said that Ofac had concluded the \"vast majority\" of transactions were not in violation of sanctions. The bank said that $24m of transactions for Iranian counterparties and $109m from other countries facing sanctions \u2013 such as Burma, Sudan and Libya \u2013 had breached sanctions.", "tags": ["HSBC", "Standard Chartered", "Banking", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Regulators", "Iran"], "title": "HSBC to pay \u00a31.2bn over Mexico scandal"},{"date": "2013-02-08T09:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The first time I tried to photograph La Central de Abasto in Mexico City, it was without permission, which was utterly impossible. As I walked through the market's immense corridors, every time I tried to get a shot I would begin to hear cackles and whistles from the vendors. Their chatter had a signature sound like a backwards catcall and it travelled through the high market rafters from one stand to another, like birds squawking in the treetops through a vast forest. This alarm would consequently bring a plain-clothes security guard, who blocked my passage and asked me to show my permission papers to take pictures. When I could produce nothing, I was escorted sternly and quickly outside the market doors. I tried my luck at shooting in another section of the market but, yet again, a rising whistle would start and another security guy would appear and cut me off. I gave up.A few months later, I got a call from the cultural representative of a local dignitary asking me If I would be interested in taking pictures in the market to celebrate its 25th anniversary. I was elated and thrilled to have the chance to go back.The Abasto is the largest wholesale market in the world and its scale feels like that of a mid-sized city. The offices adjoining the market, which eventually issued my paperwork, looked like any other governmental bureaucracy: a boring manicured garden out front, everything under fluorescent light inside, metal wastepaper baskets beside each desk, workers in drab gray and blue business suits and everyone shuffling papers and looking busy. But adorning many of the walls, where one would normally expect to see the portrait of a mayor or president, were instead photographs of different kinds of fruits \u2013 oranges, limes and papaya, mostly \u2013 all beautifully framed in full-bleed profiles. Here, everyone pledged their allegiance to wholesale produce. Finally, with a firm congratulatory handshake, I was handed my special papers: two stapled sheets with a handful of different rubber stamps in black and red ink, plus a handful of official signatures all signed in large, sweeping baroque strokes. It felt like I was getting a passport.Back inside, I had the sensation of having landed in the middle of a strange new world, which seemed almost like a mash-up of Alice in Wonderland, Blade Runner and a Brothers Grimm fairytale. Everywhere there was the throb of the passing crowd, as dense as in a subway transfer tunnel. An entire network of auxiliary houses offered everything from breakfast and lunch to hardware, neon signage, electronics, childcare centres, small church chapels, barbers, cell phone vendors and shoe shiners. A continuous low-hum came from a series of conveyor belts behind the vendors' stands that kept bringing in more and more produce. An army of individual handcart operators called cargadores pushed their diablitos (\"little devils\") loaded with goods in a vast distribution and delivery network through the veins of the market.The market is set up thematically by type of produce. I headed past the tomato corridor, the oranges and watermelon hallways and the potato section to start taking photos. The produce here is stacked high in pyramids to impress passing eyes; each stand tries to outdo its neighbours, resulting in a visual arms race, with giant dramatic palettes of colour marking the divisions all along the corridors.Just as before, like clockwork the whistles rose up every time I brought my camera to my face, and a security guy approached and asked to see my paperwork; this happened more than a dozen times. I learned later that there is a genuine concern in the market about theft and heists \u2013 not so much of the produce itself but of the vast amount of cash exchanging hands on a daily basis. There is also a kidnapping problem. Small merchants are usually the primary targets for secuestros, so there is a general paranoia when cameras are around.I met a potato salesman, who brought me into his back office to show me around. On his desk, a clump of potatoes was perched like a paperweight. Several plaques hanging on the wood-panelled walls commemorated his service as a food distributor over the years. Just as pets tend to look like their owners in the outside world, here in the market, produce looks like its seller. The potato salesman really looked like Mr Potato Head. It was magical. Flashing a smile, he told me he sold around two tons of potatoes each day.Eventually, I found my way to the outdoor section of the market, comprised of several plots the size of football fields that are set together, remnants of farmland that an expanding Mexico City gobbled up long ago. This part of the market is used mainly for seasonal produce, plants and the thousands of flowers sold daily from wide tin sheds. Many of the general public do their shopping here rather than the supermarket where prices are marked up. Anybody with a fruit stand, street markets, corner market stores, florists, plus large independent grocery stores buy their produce here \u2013 it's estimated that around 80% of the produce sold in Mexico City passes through La Central de Abastos.I was there the week before the Day of the Dead, and the outside was splashed in orange from cut piles of Mexican cempasuchiles (marigolds), which were stacked high like small buildings. Quesadilla (cheese tortilla) stands catered to weary-eyed truckers who had just dropped off recent loads. Meanwhile, clowns and musicians entertained the crowd. A black line of diesel exhaust from the distant roadway indicated that even more trucks were coming. It was seemingly endless.From this viewpoint, I could feel the tension of the city, its hunger and constant need, like an ever-present mouth crying from all sides of the market. Yet, still, there was a feeling, a strong essence, of nostalgia for old-time farm values, as if this were a party after the harvest. Smoke from roasted yams drifted under my nose and orange continued to fill my eyes, as the blue sky above contrasted perfectly with the flowers and a strong eddy of dust suddenly blew against me.This was definitely a place where people followed the crumbs home.\u2022 Rio Churubusco, ficeda.com.mx (website in Spanish)This is an article from our Guardian Travel Network. To find out more about it, click here", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "Mexico City's giant wholesale market"},{"date": "2013-02-08T09:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The first time I tried to photograph La Central de Abasto in Mexico City, it was without permission, which was utterly impossible. As I walked through the market's immense corridors, every time I tried to get a shot I would begin to hear cackles and whistles from the vendors. Their chatter had a signature sound like a backwards catcall and it travelled through the high market rafters from one stand to another, like birds squawking in the treetops through a vast forest. This alarm would consequently bring a plain-clothes security guard, who blocked my passage and asked me to show my permission papers to take pictures. When I could produce nothing, I was escorted sternly and quickly outside the market doors. I tried my luck at shooting in another section of the market but, yet again, a rising whistle would start and another security guy would appear and cut me off. I gave up.A few months later, I got a call from the cultural representative of a local dignitary asking me If I would be interested in taking pictures in the market to celebrate its 25th anniversary. I was elated and thrilled to have the chance to go back.The Abasto is the largest wholesale market in the world and its scale feels like that of a mid-sized city. The offices adjoining the market, which eventually issued my paperwork, looked like any other governmental bureaucracy: a boring manicured garden out front, everything under fluorescent light inside, metal wastepaper baskets beside each desk, workers in drab gray and blue business suits and everyone shuffling papers and looking busy. But adorning many of the walls, where one would normally expect to see the portrait of a mayor or president, were instead photographs of different kinds of fruits \u2013 oranges, limes and papaya, mostly \u2013 all beautifully framed in full-bleed profiles. Here, everyone pledged their allegiance to wholesale produce. Finally, with a firm congratulatory handshake, I was handed my special papers: two stapled sheets with a handful of different rubber stamps in black and red ink, plus a handful of official signatures all signed in large, sweeping baroque strokes. It felt like I was getting a passport.Back inside, I had the sensation of having landed in the middle of a strange new world, which seemed almost like a mash-up of Alice in Wonderland, Blade Runner and a Brothers Grimm fairytale. Everywhere there was the throb of the passing crowd, as dense as in a subway transfer tunnel. An entire network of auxiliary houses offered everything from breakfast and lunch to hardware, neon signage, electronics, childcare centres, small church chapels, barbers, cell phone vendors and shoe shiners. A continuous low-hum came from a series of conveyor belts behind the vendors' stands that kept bringing in more and more produce. An army of individual handcart operators called cargadores pushed their diablitos (\"little devils\") loaded with goods in a vast distribution and delivery network through the veins of the market.The market is set up thematically by type of produce. I headed past the tomato corridor, the oranges and watermelon hallways and the potato section to start taking photos. The produce here is stacked high in pyramids to impress passing eyes; each stand tries to outdo its neighbours, resulting in a visual arms race, with giant dramatic palettes of colour marking the divisions all along the corridors.Just as before, like clockwork the whistles rose up every time I brought my camera to my face, and a security guy approached and asked to see my paperwork; this happened more than a dozen times. I learned later that there is a genuine concern in the market about theft and heists \u2013 not so much of the produce itself but of the vast amount of cash exchanging hands on a daily basis. There is also a kidnapping problem. Small merchants are usually the primary targets for secuestros, so there is a general paranoia when cameras are around.I met a potato salesman, who brought me into his back office to show me around. On his desk, a clump of potatoes was perched like a paperweight. Several plaques hanging on the wood-panelled walls commemorated his service as a food distributor over the years. Just as pets tend to look like their owners in the outside world, here in the market, produce looks like its seller. The potato salesman really looked like Mr Potato Head. It was magical. Flashing a smile, he told me he sold around two tons of potatoes each day.Eventually, I found my way to the outdoor section of the market, comprised of several plots the size of football fields that are set together, remnants of farmland that an expanding Mexico City gobbled up long ago. This part of the market is used mainly for seasonal produce, plants and the thousands of flowers sold daily from wide tin sheds. Many of the general public do their shopping here rather than the supermarket where prices are marked up. Anybody with a fruit stand, street markets, corner market stores, florists, plus large independent grocery stores buy their produce here \u2013 it's estimated that around 80% of the produce sold in Mexico City passes through La Central de Abastos.I was there the week before the Day of the Dead, and the outside was splashed in orange from cut piles of Mexican cempasuchiles (marigolds), which were stacked high like small buildings. Quesadilla (cheese tortilla) stands catered to weary-eyed truckers who had just dropped off recent loads. Meanwhile, clowns and musicians entertained the crowd. A black line of diesel exhaust from the distant roadway indicated that even more trucks were coming. It was seemingly endless.From this viewpoint, I could feel the tension of the city, its hunger and constant need, like an ever-present mouth crying from all sides of the market. Yet, still, there was a feeling, a strong essence, of nostalgia for old-time farm values, as if this were a party after the harvest. Smoke from roasted yams drifted under my nose and orange continued to fill my eyes, as the blue sky above contrasted perfectly with the flowers and a strong eddy of dust suddenly blew against me.This was definitely a place where people followed the crumbs home.\u2022 Rio Churubusco, ficeda.com.mx (website in Spanish)This is an article from our Guardian Travel Network. To find out more about it, click here", "tags": ["Mexico City holidays", "Mexico holidays", "City breaks", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "Mexico City's giant wholesale market"},{"date": "2013-03-26T14:00:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Finca Hamburgo, at 1,250 metres above sea level, commands an uninterrupted view of 280 hectares of coffee plantations covering the verdant slopes of Tacana, a volcano in Chiapas state, southern Mexico. The damp heat there, close to the border with Guatemala, is ideal for growing Arabica coffee. But coffee rust \u2013 a disease caused by the Hemileia vastatrix fungus that spreads orange dust on to the leaves of coffee bushes \u2013 has infected the plantation, which has been operating for 125 years at Tapachula.Jorge Perez, 20, sporting a red bandana, is hacking at infected bushes with a machete. \"Dried out by the rust [roya in Spanish] almost all the leaves fall off,\" he explains. Employed on the farm as a day-labourer he and his wife crossed the border from Guatemala with a child of two to earn around $6.50 a day. Nearly half Hamburgo's plantations are affected by the loss of leaves.According to farm manager Gustavo Salazar, who was the first to raise the alarm in October 2012, the infected bushes won't produce any fruit this year. \"It's better to cut them back to strengthen them,\" he says. \"Our previous crop, from September to February, did not suffer too much, but the next one could be 70% lower.\"The fungus bleaches the leaves, preventing them from breathing. Arabica, the species most prone to rust, accounts for 97% of Mexico's 680,000 hectares of coffee plantations. \"Here in Chiapas we have gone from 3,000 hectares infected in November to 45,000 now,\" says Ricardo Trampe, the head of the Tacana Regional Coffee Producers' Federation. Coffee growers in the western state of Veracruz, the second-largest production area in Mexico after Chiapas, reported the appearance of the dreaded fungus at the end of February.The crisis seems particularly serious in Central America, with a state of emergency already in force in Honduras, Costa Rica and Guatemala. The epidemic started in Colombia in 2011, subsequently spreading to Central America then Mexico. The spores are carried by the wind, but also on the clothes of day-labourers moving from farm to farm.Hemileia vastatrix was first observed in 1861 near Lake Victoria in east Africa. It appeared in Brazil in the early 1970s, then 10 years later in Mexico. \"The fungus seems to be behaving more aggressively, less predictably, because it now affects plantations above 1,000 metres, whereas it used not to go above 800 metres,\" says Juana Barrera, an agricultural engineer at Colegio de la Frontera Sur.Could climate change be playing a part in this trend? \"Yes, because of the 1C or 2C rise in temperature in Chiapas in recent years,\" Barrera says. \"But it's not the only factor. The age and upkeep of coffee bushes matters too. Half the bushes in Chiapas are over 20 years old and belong to varieties which are very prone to rust. Another associated cause is an increasing trend to plant in the open sun, to boost productivity, instead of the traditional method of placing bushes in the shade of other trees, offering better protection for an exceptional ecosystem.\"In the past two years the Hamburgo farm has boosted output by moving two-thirds of the bushes into the sun. To combat the rust Salazar is going to adopt a new technique. \"Fumigating the plantations with copper oxychloride is no longer enough,\" he complains.A neighbouring farm, Irlanda, has been growing organic coffee on 250 hectares since 1929. The challenge here is even bigger, for until now they have never used chemical pesticides. \"The solution would be to replant with a variety of Arabica more resistant to rust, but that would be too expensive,\" says manager Ernesto Solano. A third of the farm is already affected, but he is particularly concerned about what will happen in May with the start of the rainy season, favourable to the spread of fungus.But those hardest hit are the small growers. \"All our bushes have been infected,\" says Sonia Oseguerra, 62, who farms four hectares at an elevation of 1,450 metres with her husband. \"It's our only source of income.\" Much like the Oseguerras, 98% of the 180,000 Chiapas coffee-growers own less than five hectares of land. Most are poor native Indians, according to the Mexican Association of Coffee Production (Amecafe).\"A major social crisis is hanging over us,\" says Rodolfo Trampe, the head of Amecafe. For the time being the authorities are spending $2m to assess the extent of the contamination. \"We'll have the results in a month,\" says Francisco Javier Trujillo, the head of the plant disease department at the ministry of agriculture. \"If the epidemic is confirmed we'll apply fungicides to stop it spreading beyond the affected areas. But any long-term solution involves disseminating better fertilisation practices,\" he says.For three days in February, 150 experts from Mexico and Central America gathered in the town of Tapachula to exchange know-how and advice. But \"how are we to train thousands of small coffee-growers who are widely dispersed, and can't afford to buy fertilisers or replace their old bushes?\" Trampe asks. \"We need to issue a phytosanitary alert, in order to obtain national and international funds for an emergency programme in partnership with Central American countries.\"Since then Trampe has been in London for a meeting of the International Coffee Council. It remains to be seen whether his call for assistance will be heard in time to save the Latino growers.\u2022 This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Farming", "Environment", "Global development", "Agriculture", "Science"], "title": "Coffee rust plagues farmers in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-13T13:00:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Jos\u00e9 Luis Moy\u00e1's dedication to coaxing information from the Mexican authorities began two decades ago when, as a government employee, he made a fuss about the inflated price paid for equipment to instal a laser beam \u2013 which he claims never worked anyway \u2013 on top of the capital's Monument to the Revolution. \"I lost my job, and that is how it started,\" he says.At first, Moy\u00e1 claims, he relied on information leaked to him from contacts he had established within different government bodies. He subsequently made those sources public through media contacts. Things really took off, however, after the enactment of freedom of information legislation in the wake of Mexico's transition away from one-party hegemony in 2000.Moy\u00e1, 52, is one of the few people who really knows how to word requests in a way that forces revealing responses from bureaucrats instinctively accustomed to keeping information controlled. And nobody else has the energy to do it quite so often. Moy\u00e1 claims to have made between 2,000 and 3,000 requests for information and appeals for the revision of unsatisfactory answers.\"They call me an anti-corruption terrorist,\" he says with pride.While Moy\u00e1 specialises in suspicious contracts, his concerns go beyond exposing politicians, bureaucrats and private companies getting rich at the expense of Mexican taxpayers. His claim to have proven the purchase of overpriced spying equipment is punctuated by a diatribe about the surveillance state; his allegation that the purchase of police patrol cars involved dirty dealing implies that, as a result, funds have been denied to projects that could help the country's security crisis.\"The problem is that the system covers up for corrupt politicians and nothing happens to them,\" he says. \"But an ordinary citizen who steals food is vulnerable to extortion or being put in jail.\"Moy\u00e1's style \u2013 working alone on a vast variety of different topics \u2013 is not common for Mexican campaigners, and he has been accused of having a mercenary attitude to transparency, allegedly accepting money from politicians to dig up information about rivals.He concedes that, as well as supporting himself financially with income from rented properties, he is sometimes commissioned to search for information by politicians and functionaries \"who don't dare do it themselves\". He also says that having contacts in high places, and in the media, makes him feel relatively safe, despite instances of harassment.But, Moy\u00e1 insists, his motivation boils down to a need to expose corruption wherever he finds it and \u2013 while he revels in \"small victories\" here and there that lead to the cancellation of a programme, or the sacking of an official \u2013 he finds it in just as many places today as he did when he first started.\"The authorities have got more sophisticated in the way they pretend to be attacking corruption and in the way they claim that there is more transparency,\" he says. \"But the truth is that impunity now is just as bad as it ever was.\"What does transparency mean to you?It is a way of obliging governments to spend taxpayers' money in an honest way.Why is access to information important in development?If we know how the money is spent then it is more likely to be of benefit for society. Corruption is the biggest block to development.What is the one piece of information you most want released?The money controlled by the union of Pemex, the state-owned oil company. The union receives a lot of public money, but how it is used is completely opaque.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Transparency in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-13T13:00:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Jos\u00e9 Luis Moy\u00e1's dedication to coaxing information from the Mexican authorities began two decades ago when, as a government employee, he made a fuss about the inflated price paid for equipment to instal a laser beam \u2013 which he claims never worked anyway \u2013 on top of the capital's Monument to the Revolution. \"I lost my job, and that is how it started,\" he says.At first, Moy\u00e1 claims, he relied on information leaked to him from contacts he had established within different government bodies. He subsequently made those sources public through media contacts. Things really took off, however, after the enactment of freedom of information legislation in the wake of Mexico's transition away from one-party hegemony in 2000.Moy\u00e1, 52, is one of the few people who really knows how to word requests in a way that forces revealing responses from bureaucrats instinctively accustomed to keeping information controlled. And nobody else has the energy to do it quite so often. Moy\u00e1 claims to have made between 2,000 and 3,000 requests for information and appeals for the revision of unsatisfactory answers.\"They call me an anti-corruption terrorist,\" he says with pride.While Moy\u00e1 specialises in suspicious contracts, his concerns go beyond exposing politicians, bureaucrats and private companies getting rich at the expense of Mexican taxpayers. His claim to have proven the purchase of overpriced spying equipment is punctuated by a diatribe about the surveillance state; his allegation that the purchase of police patrol cars involved dirty dealing implies that, as a result, funds have been denied to projects that could help the country's security crisis.\"The problem is that the system covers up for corrupt politicians and nothing happens to them,\" he says. \"But an ordinary citizen who steals food is vulnerable to extortion or being put in jail.\"Moy\u00e1's style \u2013 working alone on a vast variety of different topics \u2013 is not common for Mexican campaigners, and he has been accused of having a mercenary attitude to transparency, allegedly accepting money from politicians to dig up information about rivals.He concedes that, as well as supporting himself financially with income from rented properties, he is sometimes commissioned to search for information by politicians and functionaries \"who don't dare do it themselves\". He also says that having contacts in high places, and in the media, makes him feel relatively safe, despite instances of harassment.But, Moy\u00e1 insists, his motivation boils down to a need to expose corruption wherever he finds it and \u2013 while he revels in \"small victories\" here and there that lead to the cancellation of a programme, or the sacking of an official \u2013 he finds it in just as many places today as he did when he first started.\"The authorities have got more sophisticated in the way they pretend to be attacking corruption and in the way they claim that there is more transparency,\" he says. \"But the truth is that impunity now is just as bad as it ever was.\"What does transparency mean to you?It is a way of obliging governments to spend taxpayers' money in an honest way.Why is access to information important in development?If we know how the money is spent then it is more likely to be of benefit for society. Corruption is the biggest block to development.What is the one piece of information you most want released?The money controlled by the union of Pemex, the state-owned oil company. The union receives a lot of public money, but how it is used is completely opaque.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Transparency in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-21T23:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Don't miss the view of Albuquerque's legendary sunsets from the rooftop lounge of the Hotel Parq Central, in the up-and-coming East Downtown (EDo) neighbourhood. The 1926 building was originally a hospital and the vintage druggist theme of its bar is reinforced by a selection of jazz-age cocktails including a Sazerac, Pink Lady and a version of the Aviation that still includes cr\u00e8me de violette. The view inspires romance \u2013 and the double-sized lounge chairs encourage it \u2013 but note if you go with a group: this is one of the few places in Albuquerque where you can order a pitcher of margaritas or mojitos to share.\u2022 806 Central Avenue SE, +1 505 242 0040, hotelparqcentral.com. Open Mon-Thurs, and Sun 3pm-10.30pm, Fri-Sat 3pm-1.30amWith billiards, snooker, pinball, a killer jukebox and more than 120 different kinds of beer, this downtown institution attracts professionals and creative types for a quiet happy hour, then a combination of serious pool players and young hipsters later. The staff is well-educated on the beer selection and can capably guide you. (Don't bother asking for a Bud Light, but do try some of the popular local brews.) The bourbon selection is also quite good, and the bar staff's iPods play a killer cool soundtrack.\u2022 409 Central Avenue NW, +1 505 244 1820, theanodyne.com. Open Mon-Fri 4pm-1.30am, Sat 7pm-1.30am, Sun 7pm-11.30pmA huge, open warehouse space in the former downtown headquarters of the local power company, Effex also has one of the city's few rooftop dance spaces. Given the high-energy atmosphere, cocktails are safely served in plastic cups. Downstairs the music is pumping, lights are flashing and go-go dancers gyrate atop elevated boxes. When you get hot, you can slip upstairs to the breezy roof where there's a different DJ and a more intimate dancefloor. Inside, there's a more sophisticated seating area where you can see and be seen.\u2022 420 Central SW, +1 505 842 8870, effexabq.com. Open Tues, and Thurs-Sat 8pm-2am, In the early 1940s, Conrad Hilton brought his bride, Zsa Zsa Gabor, to honeymoon here at the first hotel he'd built in his home state. Today, under different owners, Hotel Andaluz, still has the historic murals preserved on the lobby walls \u2013 but the rooftop bar would appeal more to Paris Hilton than her great-grandfather. Drinks such as cucumber-jalape\u00f1o margaritas are served with Spanish-themed small plates. In the early evening, the atmosphere is serene, but call to find out if there are DJs scheduled for later. If the weather's not perfect (it usually is), or if you're with a group, reserve one of the six cosy nooks just off the lobby, called \"casbahs\".\u2022 125 Second Street NW, +1 505 923 9080, hotelandaluz.com.Don't be put off by the heavily tattooed crowd; the staff and patrons are friendlier than they look. Order a \"tall boy\" of Pabst Blue Ribbon and a shot of Jack Daniel's and you'll fit right in. Launchpad is regularly voted the city's best venue for live music. Punk rock, heavy metal, rockabilly, hip-hop and electronica. Local bands and touring acts you'd see in much bigger venues in other cities love to show off in this smaller club with outstanding sound and light systems. (Beck once played an unadvertised, hour-long aftershow set here.)\u2022 618 Central Avenue SW, +1 505 764 8887, launchpadrocks.com Check website for event detailsA dozen craft beers are brewed at this hip and relaxed downtown pub, which draws an eclectic and loyal following to its lively beer garden. Bands \u2013 bluegrass, reggae, classic rock \u2013 play several nights a week on the small outdoor stage (there's never a cover charge), and there's a different food truck parked outside every night, serving tacos, burgers and burritos, etc. The flagship beer is a strong, lively India Pale Ale; the Wild Flower Wheat is made with New Mexico honey. Marble sells only its own beer, no wine or spirits.\u2022 111 Marble Avenue NW, +1 505 243 2739, marblebrewery.com. Open Mon-Sat 1pm-midnight, Sun 1pm-10.30pmA cocktail at Seasons is the perfect finish to a stroll around Albuquerque's charming Old Town area. Downstairs, the restaurant is known for large portions of rotisserie meats and a deep wine list. Upstairs, Seasons' Rooftop Cantina has a view that spans the Sandia mountains and the spires of San Felipe de Neri church. During happy hour (4-6pm and 9-10pm weeknights) house margaritas, mojitos and sangria are only $5 and bar snacks range from $4-$7. Regulars come for live jazz on Fridays and Saturdays.\u2022 2031 Mountain Road NW, +1 505 766 5100, seasonsabq.com. Open Mon-Thurs 11.30am-11pm, Fri 11.30am-11.45pm, Sat 4pm-11.45pm, Sun 4pm-10.45pmVernon's speakeasy shtick works particularly well because the Black Diamond Lounge and Hidden Valley Steakhouse are located on a quiet, dark stretch of Albuquerque's sleepy, rural North Valley. Follow the address to a dimly lit shopping centre and find your way to the nondescript liquor store. There you'll see an unusually reinforced door with a red light above. Knock and deliver the password (call ahead or go to the website to get it). You'll be admitted by a host dressed like a gangster. The food is exorbitantly expensive, but the bar menu is reasonable and the signature cocktails fun. Try a Black Diamond Martini, the Violet Lemon Drop or the Sterling Margarita.\u2022 6855 4th St NW, +1 505 341 0831, yougottapassword.com. Open daily 4.30pm-midnightOrder a flight of tequilas (and a taxi) to share at this taco and tequila bar on a stretch of neon-streaked Central Avenue in the funky, cool Nob Hill neighbourhood. Choose from more than three dozen different tequilas and mescals and sip them straight or build your own margarita with a choice of liqueurs from limoncello to Cointreau to St Germain. Sooner or later you'll want to order tacos filled with chicharr\u00f3n (crispy pork belly) or cochinita pibil (pork braised in banana leaves). The giant open windows that line the sidewalk allow for exceptional people-watching.\u2022 3423 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 255 8226, zacatecastacos.com. Open Mon-Sat 11.30am-10pm, Sun midday-9pmWant to conduct a wine tasting for two? Zinc, an upscale spot near the university, encourages exploration by offering 20 wines by the half-bottle, glass and even half-glass. Mix and match on your own, or try one of the suggested flights (Napa reds, sparkling wines). There's a small bar in the restaurant at street level; downstairs is a dark, intimate space with mellow music several nights a week. A section of the cocktail menu is devoted to locally-made spirits, including a margarita made with Silver Coyote white whiskey.\u2022 3009 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 254 9462, zincabq.com. Open Mon-Fri 3pm-1am, Sat 11am-midnight, Sun 11am-2.30pm and 5pm-11pmGwyneth Doland is a journalist based in Albuquerque. She cooked in restaurants and taught cooking classes before spending a decade as a food writer and restaurant critic for newspapers in Santa Fe and Albuquerque\u2022 For more information on holidays in the USA, visit DiscoverAmerica.com", "tags": ["New Mexico holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Top 10s", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "American food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Albuquerque, New Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-13T13:00:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Jos\u00e9 Luis Moy\u00e1's dedication to coaxing information from the Mexican authorities began two decades ago when, as a government employee, he made a fuss about the inflated price paid for equipment to instal a laser beam \u2013 which he claims never worked anyway \u2013 on top of the capital's Monument to the Revolution. \"I lost my job, and that is how it started,\" he says.At first, Moy\u00e1 claims, he relied on information leaked to him from contacts he had established within different government bodies. He subsequently made those sources public through media contacts. Things really took off, however, after the enactment of freedom of information legislation in the wake of Mexico's transition away from one-party hegemony in 2000.Moy\u00e1, 52, is one of the few people who really knows how to word requests in a way that forces revealing responses from bureaucrats instinctively accustomed to keeping information controlled. And nobody else has the energy to do it quite so often. Moy\u00e1 claims to have made between 2,000 and 3,000 requests for information and appeals for the revision of unsatisfactory answers.\"They call me an anti-corruption terrorist,\" he says with pride.While Moy\u00e1 specialises in suspicious contracts, his concerns go beyond exposing politicians, bureaucrats and private companies getting rich at the expense of Mexican taxpayers. His claim to have proven the purchase of overpriced spying equipment is punctuated by a diatribe about the surveillance state; his allegation that the purchase of police patrol cars involved dirty dealing implies that, as a result, funds have been denied to projects that could help the country's security crisis.\"The problem is that the system covers up for corrupt politicians and nothing happens to them,\" he says. \"But an ordinary citizen who steals food is vulnerable to extortion or being put in jail.\"Moy\u00e1's style \u2013 working alone on a vast variety of different topics \u2013 is not common for Mexican campaigners, and he has been accused of having a mercenary attitude to transparency, allegedly accepting money from politicians to dig up information about rivals.He concedes that, as well as supporting himself financially with income from rented properties, he is sometimes commissioned to search for information by politicians and functionaries \"who don't dare do it themselves\". He also says that having contacts in high places, and in the media, makes him feel relatively safe, despite instances of harassment.But, Moy\u00e1 insists, his motivation boils down to a need to expose corruption wherever he finds it and \u2013 while he revels in \"small victories\" here and there that lead to the cancellation of a programme, or the sacking of an official \u2013 he finds it in just as many places today as he did when he first started.\"The authorities have got more sophisticated in the way they pretend to be attacking corruption and in the way they claim that there is more transparency,\" he says. \"But the truth is that impunity now is just as bad as it ever was.\"What does transparency mean to you?It is a way of obliging governments to spend taxpayers' money in an honest way.Why is access to information important in development?If we know how the money is spent then it is more likely to be of benefit for society. Corruption is the biggest block to development.What is the one piece of information you most want released?The money controlled by the union of Pemex, the state-owned oil company. The union receives a lot of public money, but how it is used is completely opaque.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Transparency in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-21T23:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Don't miss the view of Albuquerque's legendary sunsets from the rooftop lounge of the Hotel Parq Central, in the up-and-coming East Downtown (EDo) neighbourhood. The 1926 building was originally a hospital and the vintage druggist theme of its bar is reinforced by a selection of jazz-age cocktails including a Sazerac, Pink Lady and a version of the Aviation that still includes cr\u00e8me de violette. The view inspires romance \u2013 and the double-sized lounge chairs encourage it \u2013 but note if you go with a group: this is one of the few places in Albuquerque where you can order a pitcher of margaritas or mojitos to share.\u2022 806 Central Avenue SE, +1 505 242 0040, hotelparqcentral.com. Open Mon-Thurs, and Sun 3pm-10.30pm, Fri-Sat 3pm-1.30amWith billiards, snooker, pinball, a killer jukebox and more than 120 different kinds of beer, this downtown institution attracts professionals and creative types for a quiet happy hour, then a combination of serious pool players and young hipsters later. The staff is well-educated on the beer selection and can capably guide you. (Don't bother asking for a Bud Light, but do try some of the popular local brews.) The bourbon selection is also quite good, and the bar staff's iPods play a killer cool soundtrack.\u2022 409 Central Avenue NW, +1 505 244 1820, theanodyne.com. Open Mon-Fri 4pm-1.30am, Sat 7pm-1.30am, Sun 7pm-11.30pmA huge, open warehouse space in the former downtown headquarters of the local power company, Effex also has one of the city's few rooftop dance spaces. Given the high-energy atmosphere, cocktails are safely served in plastic cups. Downstairs the music is pumping, lights are flashing and go-go dancers gyrate atop elevated boxes. When you get hot, you can slip upstairs to the breezy roof where there's a different DJ and a more intimate dancefloor. Inside, there's a more sophisticated seating area where you can see and be seen.\u2022 420 Central SW, +1 505 842 8870, effexabq.com. Open Tues, and Thurs-Sat 8pm-2am, In the early 1940s, Conrad Hilton brought his bride, Zsa Zsa Gabor, to honeymoon here at the first hotel he'd built in his home state. Today, under different owners, Hotel Andaluz, still has the historic murals preserved on the lobby walls \u2013 but the rooftop bar would appeal more to Paris Hilton than her great-grandfather. Drinks such as cucumber-jalape\u00f1o margaritas are served with Spanish-themed small plates. In the early evening, the atmosphere is serene, but call to find out if there are DJs scheduled for later. If the weather's not perfect (it usually is), or if you're with a group, reserve one of the six cosy nooks just off the lobby, called \"casbahs\".\u2022 125 Second Street NW, +1 505 923 9080, hotelandaluz.com.Don't be put off by the heavily tattooed crowd; the staff and patrons are friendlier than they look. Order a \"tall boy\" of Pabst Blue Ribbon and a shot of Jack Daniel's and you'll fit right in. Launchpad is regularly voted the city's best venue for live music. Punk rock, heavy metal, rockabilly, hip-hop and electronica. Local bands and touring acts you'd see in much bigger venues in other cities love to show off in this smaller club with outstanding sound and light systems. (Beck once played an unadvertised, hour-long aftershow set here.)\u2022 618 Central Avenue SW, +1 505 764 8887, launchpadrocks.com Check website for event detailsA dozen craft beers are brewed at this hip and relaxed downtown pub, which draws an eclectic and loyal following to its lively beer garden. Bands \u2013 bluegrass, reggae, classic rock \u2013 play several nights a week on the small outdoor stage (there's never a cover charge), and there's a different food truck parked outside every night, serving tacos, burgers and burritos, etc. The flagship beer is a strong, lively India Pale Ale; the Wild Flower Wheat is made with New Mexico honey. Marble sells only its own beer, no wine or spirits.\u2022 111 Marble Avenue NW, +1 505 243 2739, marblebrewery.com. Open Mon-Sat 1pm-midnight, Sun 1pm-10.30pmA cocktail at Seasons is the perfect finish to a stroll around Albuquerque's charming Old Town area. Downstairs, the restaurant is known for large portions of rotisserie meats and a deep wine list. Upstairs, Seasons' Rooftop Cantina has a view that spans the Sandia mountains and the spires of San Felipe de Neri church. During happy hour (4-6pm and 9-10pm weeknights) house margaritas, mojitos and sangria are only $5 and bar snacks range from $4-$7. Regulars come for live jazz on Fridays and Saturdays.\u2022 2031 Mountain Road NW, +1 505 766 5100, seasonsabq.com. Open Mon-Thurs 11.30am-11pm, Fri 11.30am-11.45pm, Sat 4pm-11.45pm, Sun 4pm-10.45pmVernon's speakeasy shtick works particularly well because the Black Diamond Lounge and Hidden Valley Steakhouse are located on a quiet, dark stretch of Albuquerque's sleepy, rural North Valley. Follow the address to a dimly lit shopping centre and find your way to the nondescript liquor store. There you'll see an unusually reinforced door with a red light above. Knock and deliver the password (call ahead or go to the website to get it). You'll be admitted by a host dressed like a gangster. The food is exorbitantly expensive, but the bar menu is reasonable and the signature cocktails fun. Try a Black Diamond Martini, the Violet Lemon Drop or the Sterling Margarita.\u2022 6855 4th St NW, +1 505 341 0831, yougottapassword.com. Open daily 4.30pm-midnightOrder a flight of tequilas (and a taxi) to share at this taco and tequila bar on a stretch of neon-streaked Central Avenue in the funky, cool Nob Hill neighbourhood. Choose from more than three dozen different tequilas and mescals and sip them straight or build your own margarita with a choice of liqueurs from limoncello to Cointreau to St Germain. Sooner or later you'll want to order tacos filled with chicharr\u00f3n (crispy pork belly) or cochinita pibil (pork braised in banana leaves). The giant open windows that line the sidewalk allow for exceptional people-watching.\u2022 3423 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 255 8226, zacatecastacos.com. Open Mon-Sat 11.30am-10pm, Sun midday-9pmWant to conduct a wine tasting for two? Zinc, an upscale spot near the university, encourages exploration by offering 20 wines by the half-bottle, glass and even half-glass. Mix and match on your own, or try one of the suggested flights (Napa reds, sparkling wines). There's a small bar in the restaurant at street level; downstairs is a dark, intimate space with mellow music several nights a week. A section of the cocktail menu is devoted to locally-made spirits, including a margarita made with Silver Coyote white whiskey.\u2022 3009 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 254 9462, zincabq.com. Open Mon-Fri 3pm-1am, Sat 11am-midnight, Sun 11am-2.30pm and 5pm-11pmGwyneth Doland is a journalist based in Albuquerque. She cooked in restaurants and taught cooking classes before spending a decade as a food writer and restaurant critic for newspapers in Santa Fe and Albuquerque\u2022 For more information on holidays in the USA, visit DiscoverAmerica.com", "tags": ["New Mexico holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Top 10s", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "American food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Albuquerque, New Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-21T23:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "From a distance, this place looks like a generic tower hotel. But up close, plenty of details make it feel warm and historic. In the large Spanish-colonial lobby, sun glints off the glossy brick floor, and rooms are furnished with hand-hewn wooden bedsteads. The shops and galleries of Old Town, the historic adobe district, are a short walk south, as is Albuquerque's excellent art and history museum. Request a room on the north side, in the back, for the best view of the Sandia mountains.\u2022 800 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 843 6300, hotelabq.com. Rooms from $98Zsa Zsa Gabor slept here. Well, not when it was the Andaluz, but way back when it was husband Conrad Hilton's first hotel in his native New Mexico. After a complete renovation in 2009, the Andaluz is again drawing big names downtown, especially to the private cocktail nooks in its grand lobby. The rooms have smart modern tech (auto-off lights, solar-heated water) and luxury touches such as Frette sheets, but retain the Moorish-arch doorways and other historic details from the Hilton era. The Zsa Zsa penthouse features a copper soaking tub fit for a Hollywood queen.\u2022 125 Second Street NW, +1 505 242 9090, hotelandaluz.com. Doubles from $128 a night In Albuquerque's bucolic North Valley, Los Poblanos is a cottonwood-shaded retreat on 25 acres of organic farmland, complete with goats, chickens and the occasional peacock. Guests can choose between snug rooms in the 1930s adobe main house or a roomier, more minimalist \"farm suite\" in the dairy barns past the saltwater pool. Wherever you sleep, the scent of lavender wafts in from the tidy fields out front, and meals are dazzling compositions of the local produce \u2013 including eggs from those chickens.\u2022 4803 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 344 9297, lospoblanos.com. From $150 B&B\"Quarantine!\" is this hotel's version of the \"Do not disturb\" sign, and the halls are lined with glass cases full of odd medical paraphernalia. This is a nod to the stately building's past as a hospital for railroad workers (and later as a psychiatric ward), but now the atmosphere is all comfort and calm. Rooms are in soothing shades of grey, and bathrooms have a vintage look. Opened in 2011, the hotel quickly became popular with locals for its rooftop cocktail lounge, with a view of the Sandia mountains.\u2022 806 Central Ave SE, +1 505 242 0040, hotelparqcentral.com. Rooms from $160These two 100-year-old homes, dubbed Heritage House and Spy House, sit in a treeshaded neighbourhood on the edge of downtown. Both are excellent places to sleep, tastefully furnished with Victoriana and blessedly light on frills and chintz. But the really interesting detail is in Spy House: the 1912 bungalow is where David Greenglass, brother of Ethel Rosenberg, lived and met with other KGB operatives to pass on atomic secrets in 1945. His room is now painted a cheery yellow, dispelling the cold war gloom, but still has news clippings and period furniture.\u2022 207 High Street NE, +1 505 842 0223, albuquerquebedandbreakfasts.com. Rooms from $89 B&B The shell of this hotel is pure 1960s concrete mod. Unfortunately, that flair doesn't carry into the rooms, but they're nonetheless a bargain on the west edge of downtown. All the practical comforts are here: mini-fridges, free Wi-Fi, plush beds \u2026 and (oddly) faux fireplaces. Rates include airport pick-up and a generous breakfast buffet, of the prepackaged sort common at chain motels (make your own waffles). There's even a small pool, and on Saturdays, the farmers' market sets up in the park across the street.\u2022 717 Central Avenue NW, +1 505 924 2400, thehotelblue.com.Rooms from $73 B&BThe heart of Route 66 still beats at this little motor court, as a snazzy orange-and-green neon sign points drivers in from Central Avenue. The rooms are as sensible as the name implies, on the snug scale of decades past. The beds are firm, the sheets are crisp and the small pool is so clean it looks like it was installed yesterday. The German owners are on hand in the office to dole out advice about the area, not far from Old Town. They've also helpfully installed a laundry room.\u2022 2402 Central Avenue SW, +1 505 243 3554, nonsmokersmotel.com. Rooms from $86Like the Hotel Albuquerque, which also manages this place, the Nativo Lodge doesn't look special on the outside. But inside, it's a showcase for Native American decoration, both traditional and modern. In particular, four rooms have been painted by contemporary Navajo artists, in styles ranging from wild graffiti to simple geometric designs; part of your room rate goes to the Southwest Association for Indian Arts, which runs Santa Fe's famous Indian Market. The location, on the north side of the city, is especially convenient for the October Balloon Fiesta.\u2022 6000 Pan American Freeway NE, +1 505 798 4300, nativolodge.com. Rooms from $59At this quirky, artfully designed bed and breakfast near the Rio Grande and just north of Old Town, the weather determines the venue for your morning meal. In winter, you breakfast in a cosy room with stained-glass windows and are warmed by a crackling fire. In summer, meals move outside to a festively tiled open-air kitchen and dining area, surrounded by rambling gardens. Hostess Sue has style and a sense of humour: the seven rooms and suites are done in candylike Mexican hues, and in one, the bathroom tiles cheer \"Ol\u00e9!\"\u2022 2700 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 345 3541, cinnamonmorning.com. Rooms from $109 B&BHyatt Tamaya Santa Ana Pueblo owns this 350-room resort, on tribal land north of the city. From here, the Sandia mountains look close enough to touch \u2013 especially from a \"mountain vista\" room. The surrounding hills and adjacent Rio Grande provide plenty of room for horse riding or golf. But what really makes the place distinctive are the cultural programmes, such as storytelling nights with pueblo members or pottery classes. There's also a long list of kids' activities. If that all sounds too active, head for the spa, which always smells of wild sage.\u2022 1300 Tuyuna Trail, +1 505 867 1234, tamaya.hyatt.com. Rooms from $178Zora O'Neill is the author of guidebooks Moon New Mexico and Moon Santa Fe, Taos & Albuquerque, and blogs at rovinggastronome.comPrices do not include 15.5% hotel and city taxes. Rates include breakfast only where noted\u2022 For more information on holidays in the USA, see DiscoverAmerica.com", "tags": ["New Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Road trips", "Top 10s", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Albuquerque, New Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-13T13:00:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Jos\u00e9 Luis Moy\u00e1's dedication to coaxing information from the Mexican authorities began two decades ago when, as a government employee, he made a fuss about the inflated price paid for equipment to instal a laser beam \u2013 which he claims never worked anyway \u2013 on top of the capital's Monument to the Revolution. \"I lost my job, and that is how it started,\" he says.At first, Moy\u00e1 claims, he relied on information leaked to him from contacts he had established within different government bodies. He subsequently made those sources public through media contacts. Things really took off, however, after the enactment of freedom of information legislation in the wake of Mexico's transition away from one-party hegemony in 2000.Moy\u00e1, 52, is one of the few people who really knows how to word requests in a way that forces revealing responses from bureaucrats instinctively accustomed to keeping information controlled. And nobody else has the energy to do it quite so often. Moy\u00e1 claims to have made between 2,000 and 3,000 requests for information and appeals for the revision of unsatisfactory answers.\"They call me an anti-corruption terrorist,\" he says with pride.While Moy\u00e1 specialises in suspicious contracts, his concerns go beyond exposing politicians, bureaucrats and private companies getting rich at the expense of Mexican taxpayers. His claim to have proven the purchase of overpriced spying equipment is punctuated by a diatribe about the surveillance state; his allegation that the purchase of police patrol cars involved dirty dealing implies that, as a result, funds have been denied to projects that could help the country's security crisis.\"The problem is that the system covers up for corrupt politicians and nothing happens to them,\" he says. \"But an ordinary citizen who steals food is vulnerable to extortion or being put in jail.\"Moy\u00e1's style \u2013 working alone on a vast variety of different topics \u2013 is not common for Mexican campaigners, and he has been accused of having a mercenary attitude to transparency, allegedly accepting money from politicians to dig up information about rivals.He concedes that, as well as supporting himself financially with income from rented properties, he is sometimes commissioned to search for information by politicians and functionaries \"who don't dare do it themselves\". He also says that having contacts in high places, and in the media, makes him feel relatively safe, despite instances of harassment.But, Moy\u00e1 insists, his motivation boils down to a need to expose corruption wherever he finds it and \u2013 while he revels in \"small victories\" here and there that lead to the cancellation of a programme, or the sacking of an official \u2013 he finds it in just as many places today as he did when he first started.\"The authorities have got more sophisticated in the way they pretend to be attacking corruption and in the way they claim that there is more transparency,\" he says. \"But the truth is that impunity now is just as bad as it ever was.\"What does transparency mean to you?It is a way of obliging governments to spend taxpayers' money in an honest way.Why is access to information important in development?If we know how the money is spent then it is more likely to be of benefit for society. Corruption is the biggest block to development.What is the one piece of information you most want released?The money controlled by the union of Pemex, the state-owned oil company. The union receives a lot of public money, but how it is used is completely opaque.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Transparency in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-21T23:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Don't miss the view of Albuquerque's legendary sunsets from the rooftop lounge of the Hotel Parq Central, in the up-and-coming East Downtown (EDo) neighbourhood. The 1926 building was originally a hospital and the vintage druggist theme of its bar is reinforced by a selection of jazz-age cocktails including a Sazerac, Pink Lady and a version of the Aviation that still includes cr\u00e8me de violette. The view inspires romance \u2013 and the double-sized lounge chairs encourage it \u2013 but note if you go with a group: this is one of the few places in Albuquerque where you can order a pitcher of margaritas or mojitos to share.\u2022 806 Central Avenue SE, +1 505 242 0040, hotelparqcentral.com. Open Mon-Thurs, and Sun 3pm-10.30pm, Fri-Sat 3pm-1.30amWith billiards, snooker, pinball, a killer jukebox and more than 120 different kinds of beer, this downtown institution attracts professionals and creative types for a quiet happy hour, then a combination of serious pool players and young hipsters later. The staff is well-educated on the beer selection and can capably guide you. (Don't bother asking for a Bud Light, but do try some of the popular local brews.) The bourbon selection is also quite good, and the bar staff's iPods play a killer cool soundtrack.\u2022 409 Central Avenue NW, +1 505 244 1820, theanodyne.com. Open Mon-Fri 4pm-1.30am, Sat 7pm-1.30am, Sun 7pm-11.30pmA huge, open warehouse space in the former downtown headquarters of the local power company, Effex also has one of the city's few rooftop dance spaces. Given the high-energy atmosphere, cocktails are safely served in plastic cups. Downstairs the music is pumping, lights are flashing and go-go dancers gyrate atop elevated boxes. When you get hot, you can slip upstairs to the breezy roof where there's a different DJ and a more intimate dancefloor. Inside, there's a more sophisticated seating area where you can see and be seen.\u2022 420 Central SW, +1 505 842 8870, effexabq.com. Open Tues, and Thurs-Sat 8pm-2am, In the early 1940s, Conrad Hilton brought his bride, Zsa Zsa Gabor, to honeymoon here at the first hotel he'd built in his home state. Today, under different owners, Hotel Andaluz, still has the historic murals preserved on the lobby walls \u2013 but the rooftop bar would appeal more to Paris Hilton than her great-grandfather. Drinks such as cucumber-jalape\u00f1o margaritas are served with Spanish-themed small plates. In the early evening, the atmosphere is serene, but call to find out if there are DJs scheduled for later. If the weather's not perfect (it usually is), or if you're with a group, reserve one of the six cosy nooks just off the lobby, called \"casbahs\".\u2022 125 Second Street NW, +1 505 923 9080, hotelandaluz.com.Don't be put off by the heavily tattooed crowd; the staff and patrons are friendlier than they look. Order a \"tall boy\" of Pabst Blue Ribbon and a shot of Jack Daniel's and you'll fit right in. Launchpad is regularly voted the city's best venue for live music. Punk rock, heavy metal, rockabilly, hip-hop and electronica. Local bands and touring acts you'd see in much bigger venues in other cities love to show off in this smaller club with outstanding sound and light systems. (Beck once played an unadvertised, hour-long aftershow set here.)\u2022 618 Central Avenue SW, +1 505 764 8887, launchpadrocks.com Check website for event detailsA dozen craft beers are brewed at this hip and relaxed downtown pub, which draws an eclectic and loyal following to its lively beer garden. Bands \u2013 bluegrass, reggae, classic rock \u2013 play several nights a week on the small outdoor stage (there's never a cover charge), and there's a different food truck parked outside every night, serving tacos, burgers and burritos, etc. The flagship beer is a strong, lively India Pale Ale; the Wild Flower Wheat is made with New Mexico honey. Marble sells only its own beer, no wine or spirits.\u2022 111 Marble Avenue NW, +1 505 243 2739, marblebrewery.com. Open Mon-Sat 1pm-midnight, Sun 1pm-10.30pmA cocktail at Seasons is the perfect finish to a stroll around Albuquerque's charming Old Town area. Downstairs, the restaurant is known for large portions of rotisserie meats and a deep wine list. Upstairs, Seasons' Rooftop Cantina has a view that spans the Sandia mountains and the spires of San Felipe de Neri church. During happy hour (4-6pm and 9-10pm weeknights) house margaritas, mojitos and sangria are only $5 and bar snacks range from $4-$7. Regulars come for live jazz on Fridays and Saturdays.\u2022 2031 Mountain Road NW, +1 505 766 5100, seasonsabq.com. Open Mon-Thurs 11.30am-11pm, Fri 11.30am-11.45pm, Sat 4pm-11.45pm, Sun 4pm-10.45pmVernon's speakeasy shtick works particularly well because the Black Diamond Lounge and Hidden Valley Steakhouse are located on a quiet, dark stretch of Albuquerque's sleepy, rural North Valley. Follow the address to a dimly lit shopping centre and find your way to the nondescript liquor store. There you'll see an unusually reinforced door with a red light above. Knock and deliver the password (call ahead or go to the website to get it). You'll be admitted by a host dressed like a gangster. The food is exorbitantly expensive, but the bar menu is reasonable and the signature cocktails fun. Try a Black Diamond Martini, the Violet Lemon Drop or the Sterling Margarita.\u2022 6855 4th St NW, +1 505 341 0831, yougottapassword.com. Open daily 4.30pm-midnightOrder a flight of tequilas (and a taxi) to share at this taco and tequila bar on a stretch of neon-streaked Central Avenue in the funky, cool Nob Hill neighbourhood. Choose from more than three dozen different tequilas and mescals and sip them straight or build your own margarita with a choice of liqueurs from limoncello to Cointreau to St Germain. Sooner or later you'll want to order tacos filled with chicharr\u00f3n (crispy pork belly) or cochinita pibil (pork braised in banana leaves). The giant open windows that line the sidewalk allow for exceptional people-watching.\u2022 3423 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 255 8226, zacatecastacos.com. Open Mon-Sat 11.30am-10pm, Sun midday-9pmWant to conduct a wine tasting for two? Zinc, an upscale spot near the university, encourages exploration by offering 20 wines by the half-bottle, glass and even half-glass. Mix and match on your own, or try one of the suggested flights (Napa reds, sparkling wines). There's a small bar in the restaurant at street level; downstairs is a dark, intimate space with mellow music several nights a week. A section of the cocktail menu is devoted to locally-made spirits, including a margarita made with Silver Coyote white whiskey.\u2022 3009 Central Avenue NE, +1 505 254 9462, zincabq.com. Open Mon-Fri 3pm-1am, Sat 11am-midnight, Sun 11am-2.30pm and 5pm-11pmGwyneth Doland is a journalist based in Albuquerque. She cooked in restaurants and taught cooking classes before spending a decade as a food writer and restaurant critic for newspapers in Santa Fe and Albuquerque\u2022 For more information on holidays in the USA, visit DiscoverAmerica.com", "tags": ["New Mexico holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food and drink", "Top 10s", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "American food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Albuquerque, New Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-21T23:10:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "From a distance, this place looks like a generic tower hotel. But up close, plenty of details make it feel warm and historic. In the large Spanish-colonial lobby, sun glints off the glossy brick floor, and rooms are furnished with hand-hewn wooden bedsteads. The shops and galleries of Old Town, the historic adobe district, are a short walk south, as is Albuquerque's excellent art and history museum. Request a room on the north side, in the back, for the best view of the Sandia mountains.\u2022 800 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 843 6300, hotelabq.com. Rooms from $98Zsa Zsa Gabor slept here. Well, not when it was the Andaluz, but way back when it was husband Conrad Hilton's first hotel in his native New Mexico. After a complete renovation in 2009, the Andaluz is again drawing big names downtown, especially to the private cocktail nooks in its grand lobby. The rooms have smart modern tech (auto-off lights, solar-heated water) and luxury touches such as Frette sheets, but retain the Moorish-arch doorways and other historic details from the Hilton era. The Zsa Zsa penthouse features a copper soaking tub fit for a Hollywood queen.\u2022 125 Second Street NW, +1 505 242 9090, hotelandaluz.com. Doubles from $128 a night In Albuquerque's bucolic North Valley, Los Poblanos is a cottonwood-shaded retreat on 25 acres of organic farmland, complete with goats, chickens and the occasional peacock. Guests can choose between snug rooms in the 1930s adobe main house or a roomier, more minimalist \"farm suite\" in the dairy barns past the saltwater pool. Wherever you sleep, the scent of lavender wafts in from the tidy fields out front, and meals are dazzling compositions of the local produce \u2013 including eggs from those chickens.\u2022 4803 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 344 9297, lospoblanos.com. From $150 B&B\"Quarantine!\" is this hotel's version of the \"Do not disturb\" sign, and the halls are lined with glass cases full of odd medical paraphernalia. This is a nod to the stately building's past as a hospital for railroad workers (and later as a psychiatric ward), but now the atmosphere is all comfort and calm. Rooms are in soothing shades of grey, and bathrooms have a vintage look. Opened in 2011, the hotel quickly became popular with locals for its rooftop cocktail lounge, with a view of the Sandia mountains.\u2022 806 Central Ave SE, +1 505 242 0040, hotelparqcentral.com. Rooms from $160These two 100-year-old homes, dubbed Heritage House and Spy House, sit in a treeshaded neighbourhood on the edge of downtown. Both are excellent places to sleep, tastefully furnished with Victoriana and blessedly light on frills and chintz. But the really interesting detail is in Spy House: the 1912 bungalow is where David Greenglass, brother of Ethel Rosenberg, lived and met with other KGB operatives to pass on atomic secrets in 1945. His room is now painted a cheery yellow, dispelling the cold war gloom, but still has news clippings and period furniture.\u2022 207 High Street NE, +1 505 842 0223, albuquerquebedandbreakfasts.com. Rooms from $89 B&B The shell of this hotel is pure 1960s concrete mod. Unfortunately, that flair doesn't carry into the rooms, but they're nonetheless a bargain on the west edge of downtown. All the practical comforts are here: mini-fridges, free Wi-Fi, plush beds \u2026 and (oddly) faux fireplaces. Rates include airport pick-up and a generous breakfast buffet, of the prepackaged sort common at chain motels (make your own waffles). There's even a small pool, and on Saturdays, the farmers' market sets up in the park across the street.\u2022 717 Central Avenue NW, +1 505 924 2400, thehotelblue.com.Rooms from $73 B&BThe heart of Route 66 still beats at this little motor court, as a snazzy orange-and-green neon sign points drivers in from Central Avenue. The rooms are as sensible as the name implies, on the snug scale of decades past. The beds are firm, the sheets are crisp and the small pool is so clean it looks like it was installed yesterday. The German owners are on hand in the office to dole out advice about the area, not far from Old Town. They've also helpfully installed a laundry room.\u2022 2402 Central Avenue SW, +1 505 243 3554, nonsmokersmotel.com. Rooms from $86Like the Hotel Albuquerque, which also manages this place, the Nativo Lodge doesn't look special on the outside. But inside, it's a showcase for Native American decoration, both traditional and modern. In particular, four rooms have been painted by contemporary Navajo artists, in styles ranging from wild graffiti to simple geometric designs; part of your room rate goes to the Southwest Association for Indian Arts, which runs Santa Fe's famous Indian Market. The location, on the north side of the city, is especially convenient for the October Balloon Fiesta.\u2022 6000 Pan American Freeway NE, +1 505 798 4300, nativolodge.com. Rooms from $59At this quirky, artfully designed bed and breakfast near the Rio Grande and just north of Old Town, the weather determines the venue for your morning meal. In winter, you breakfast in a cosy room with stained-glass windows and are warmed by a crackling fire. In summer, meals move outside to a festively tiled open-air kitchen and dining area, surrounded by rambling gardens. Hostess Sue has style and a sense of humour: the seven rooms and suites are done in candylike Mexican hues, and in one, the bathroom tiles cheer \"Ol\u00e9!\"\u2022 2700 Rio Grande Boulevard NW, +1 505 345 3541, cinnamonmorning.com. Rooms from $109 B&BHyatt Tamaya Santa Ana Pueblo owns this 350-room resort, on tribal land north of the city. From here, the Sandia mountains look close enough to touch \u2013 especially from a \"mountain vista\" room. The surrounding hills and adjacent Rio Grande provide plenty of room for horse riding or golf. But what really makes the place distinctive are the cultural programmes, such as storytelling nights with pueblo members or pottery classes. There's also a long list of kids' activities. If that all sounds too active, head for the spa, which always smells of wild sage.\u2022 1300 Tuyuna Trail, +1 505 867 1234, tamaya.hyatt.com. Rooms from $178Zora O'Neill is the author of guidebooks Moon New Mexico and Moon Santa Fe, Taos & Albuquerque, and blogs at rovinggastronome.comPrices do not include 15.5% hotel and city taxes. Rates include breakfast only where noted\u2022 For more information on holidays in the USA, see DiscoverAmerica.com", "tags": ["New Mexico holidays", "Hotels", "Road trips", "Top 10s", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Albuquerque, New Mexico"},{"date": "2013-06-20T17:12:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": " 6.12pm BST That's all folks! Thanks to\u00a0our brilliant team of experts and all the readers who contributed some great tips. If you didn't already have a trip planned, Texas and New Mexico may well have moved to the top of your wish list after reading this blog...Happy travels to y'all \u2013 and watch out for low-flying UFOs 6.05pm BST In response to a shout out for great movie locations @zora writes:\u00a0For @Cristof, who asked about a motorcycle trip, the film Wild Hogs was shot in Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid, btw), between Albuquerque and Santa Fe. The production crew built a diner in the middle of town that's still standing, as a gift shop.I also was just reminded that The Man Who Fell to Earth was shot in New Mexico--most of the desert scenes are down around Alamogordo, and of course in White Sands National Monument, which is really an out-of-this-world sight. (And it could be worked into a road trip up from central Texas.)Not forgetting Las Vegas \u2013 the one in New Mexico. It has been a popular old-West setting since the silent-movie era. And Red Dawn (ah, remember the Cold War?) was shot there.And here's @LaurenModery on why Austin is the film capital of Texas:Directors Richard Linklater (Before Sunrise series, Slacker, Dazed and Confused), Robert Rodriguez (Sin City, Desperado) and Mike Judge (Beavis and Butthead, Office Space) all call Austin their home. Because of that, many of their films have been shot here, including Office Space, Dazed and Confused, Grindhouse, Machete, Sin City etc. Transformers 4 is shooting as we speak. Also, the show Friday Night Lights was based out of Austin. Essentially, everywhere you walk in Austin, you'll see a famous film or TV landmark.And FilmATX points out that Austin was named the number one place to live and make movies by Moviemaker magazine and adds more movie highlights:Malick shot Tree of Life with Brad Pitt just outside Austin in Smithville (Hope Floats also filmed there). He also just wrapped a film about the Austin music scene with Ryan Gosling.The Coen Brothers love working in Texas, they have made two films in Austin: Blood Simple and True Grit, and No Country for Old Men in Marfa (where Giant and There will Be Blood were also made).The NBC series Revolution recently setup shop in Austin and will be filming for the rest of the year... Should be fun to watch the set pieces for the show crop up in and around the Hill Country.On top of that we have the Austin Film Festival in October, SXSW Film in March, Fantastic Fest in September and so many more screenings in between by groups like the Austin Film Society and the Alamo Drafthouse. 5.45pm BST In response to\u00a0@suffering_jukebox, a musician visiting the Four Corners area this summer and looking for artistic inspiration, @inlandwest writes: Northern New Mexico boasts plenty of ruin sites, many are just on public land for you to find.Canyon Largo near Blanco, NM is the size of Manhattan and is wide open for exploring; you can find the Crow Canyon Petroglyph site there, which is amazing.On 550 between Cuba and Bloomfield you can climb up on El Huerfano Mesa, one of the sacred Navajo mountains for a spectacular view of the desert that stretches forever.Navajo Dam is the second largest lake in New Mexico and a great place to beat the heat. 5.35pm BST One reader bemoaned the lack of good food in Texas. But avoid the chains and stick to local, independent joints and you'll have some of the finest BBQ, Mexican and 'New Mexican' you'll ever taste. Here's a few tasty tips from our experts to whet your appetite:From @meganeaves:New Mexican cuisine is unique among food in the world - an incredible mix of Spanish brought by early settlers, Mexican and Native American, all topped off with our signature local chile (note the 'e'), which is made into a sauce as both red and green varieties, the best of which come from Hatch, New Mexico for green and Chimayo, NM for red. On menus, you'll see familiar items like burritos and tacos, but rendered differently than you may have tasted before.Some good places to start on your quest through New Mexican food are below.In Santa Fe:The ShedLa ChozaHorseman's Haven CafeSan Marcos Cafe (south of Santa Fe)In Albuquerque:Duran Central Pharmacy (my all-time favourite restaurant)El Patio de AlbuquerquePadilla's Mexican KitchenEl Pinto@jcreidtx sent in this link to a map of the 50 best BBQ joints in Texas, courtesy of Texas Monthly magazine: 50 best BBQ joints in TexasHe also suggests \"Houston's 'New Chinatown' along the Bellaire corridor (the \"old Chinatown\" is near downtown and worth a visit too)\". Plus the dizzying array of Asian restaurants: Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese. A few to check out: Mala Sichuan, FuFu Cafe, Tan Tan, Arco Seafood, Jasmine Asian Cuisine. The neighboring Hong Kong Market is one of the largest Asian markets in Texas.And if you want to learn how to put together some of the dishes you might try on your travels, @outspirenewmexico suggests a cooking class:A few in Santa Fe and Albuquerque area:Santa Fe School of CookingJane Butel's in CorralesLos Poblanos in Los RanchosUpdated at 5.53pm BST 4.00pm BST @cristof wants to see the New Mexico/Texas scenery as part of a motorbiking expedition and asks:Have you any advice on constructing an itinerary around spectacular landscapes, good roads and accommodation? And a time of year when I wouldn't cook inside the helmet?Avoid summer unless you want your head to boil alive, or as @laurenmodery puts it \"Texas feels like Satan's butt crack in the summer.\"As for Lauren's road trip highlights...\u00a0On my major road trip through NM, we came in from TX and went to Carlsbad (the caverns are a must!) to Roswell to Santa Fe to Albuquerque to Madrid to Truth or Consequences to Las Cruces. We missed out on Taos and Alamogordo! :( As for Texas, West Texas is gorgeous, but ENDLESS! The drive can get quite tedious. If you go further east in the state, you can do a north-to-south trip between Dallas, Austin, San Antonio and Houston easily. If you like quirky, small artsy towns, check out Madrid in NM and Marfa in TX. I always love the artsy boutique hotels: Hotel Paisano in Marfa, the Belmont in Dallas, the Belmont in Austin and Inn of the Governors in Santa Fe. Have fun!@outspirenewmexico recommends a ride through history:One route that is popular is to re-trace the \"Mother Road\", old U.S. Route 66, which went from Chicago to Santa Monica, California. The parts that went through New Mexico show a microcosm of the state. (After 1937, US Rt 66 by-passed Santa Fe but many folks come visit along a modified pre-1937 alignment.) The \"old\" road goes through little ghost towns as well as more vibrant areas, but for highway history/Americana buffs, it's a classic.An unofficial but quite informative page:http://www.theroadwanderer.net/66NMex/route66NM.htmUpdated at 4.17pm BST 3.41pm BST Texas is known for country music but @MoneyCircus wants to find the blues...@meganeaves recommends:One of the state's great blues clubs is Antones in Austin, where in their day the likes of B.B. King and Muddy Waters graced the stage. Another absolute must-visit is Luckenbach (west of Austin, and immortalised in the Waylon Jennings song by the same name), an old-time styled town with a dance hall where all of the greats have played. In this case, we are talking about country music, but the type of country music that god intended (Waylon, Willie, Robert Earle Keen - the Texas greats). Music fans really should not miss out on this one.And thanks to @jcreidtx for this link to Houston's blues scene: Houston's Top 8 Blues ClubsUpdated at 3.48pm BST 3.32pm BST @halpin asks about the must sees/dos on the way from Canyonlands National Park, Utah to Albuquerque via Santa Fe, adding \"one of the main purposes of our trip is hiking and seeing the great outdoors\".Expert @inlandwest\u00a0replies:Some of the stops you might want to Google are Hovenweep Ruins, Mesa Verde Ruins, Aztec Ruins, Angel Peak Recreation Area south of Bloomfield, NM, Ship Rock outside of Shiprock, NM, Chaco Canyon Ruins and don\u2019t forget about the mountains up near Durango, Colorado the fall colors are amazing at that time of year.Updated at 3.49pm BST 3.22pm BST Our experts have come back with tips on the road trip questions. In response to @vickihopkop's question about where to stay on a three-day trip across Texas, with one night in Austin and possible stops in Beaumont and Midland, our expert @meganeaves advises: says: I personally would not recommend staying overnight in Midland/Odessa \u2013 not much to do and very uninteresting little cities. Instead, if you think you can swing a couple of extra hours driving from Austin, I\u2019d say head to El Paso, Texas for fantastic Tex-Mex food and a very unique cultural experience, great museum and interesting shopping. Alternately, you could make for Carlsbad, NM and take a peek into the fascinating Carlsbad Caverns (website) \u2013 one of the largest cave chambers in the world. If you can\u2019t stomach the longer drive, I'd opt to stay in San Angelo rather than Midland/Odessa. This little city is located along the Concho River and has a lovely riverwalk area, as well as the Fort Concho National Historic Landmark, which commemorates the frontier fort established here in the 1860s and a quaint historic district. Just outside of town, San Angelo State Park is more than 7,000 acres of hiking along O.C. Fisher Lake. Enjoy your trip and make sure to sample the many varieties of BBQ available across Texas!Another expert, @jcreidtx,  grew up in Beaumont and says:Beaumont's a good place to stop on your way through Texas. Any of the better-known hotel chains will be fine. There's a Hampton Inn on the west side of town where I have stayed that's quite nice. As others have mentioned, Beaumont is the birthplace of the petroleum industry in the US. The associated stories are actually quite interesting and you can see that at the Gladys City Boomtown Museum. Here's the link:http://www.spindletop.org/I'd spend a morning there. As you leave and head west, I'd recommend stopping in a little town called Winnie for lunch. It's about 20 minutes outside Beaumont on I-10 on your way to west Texas. There's a restaurant there called Al-T's which serves local Cajun cooking. Try the boudin, gumbo and fried catfish. Fried alligator is pretty good too.And @AndyRhodes of who wrote the Moon guide to Texas recommends a Midland hotel:In the Midland area, the historic Hotel Settles is a great place to stay \u2013 they\u2019ve done a wonderful job with the restoration. While in the area, you may want to visit Midland\u2019s fascinating Petroleum Museum, or perhaps even see the World\u2019s Largest Jackrabbit (statue) in nearby Odessa.Updated at 3.46pm BST 3.00pm BST Great question from @Bill Lehane:I'm wondering what would be the best way to see some of the filming locations in Albuquerque and elsewhere in New Mexico featured in TV series Breaking Bad?@OutspireNewMexico replied:Much of the now-retired series \"Breaking Bad\" was filmed in and around Albuquerque, NM. If you're a do-it-yourselfer, many of the locations are listed through the city's official website http://www.itsatrip.org/albuquerque/arts/breaking-bad-in-albuquerque.aspxIf you'd like a more interpretive experience and leave the logistics of traffic issues to others, try the BaD Trolley Tour http://www.abqtrolley.com/index.php/THEBaDTOUR@zora says ABQ Trolley tour is *great*, but books out way in advance, so plan ahead. She suggests getting your Breaking Bad fix by bike with \"Biking Bad\"Routes (on Mountain) does a BB locations tour. It just started up, so I haven't been on it yet. But they have really nice city bikes and are fun people, so I expect it will be good.(And yes, Albuquerque really does look like it does on TV!)Are there any other TV or film locations worth a visit? Tell us in the comments below.Updated at 3.51pm BST 2.38pm BST Our blogger for the live road trip starting next Monday is Katie Rogers, and she's just posted her rough route for the five-day jaunt from Austin-Alburquerque.But - and this is a big but - she will be guided by readers and users of Twitter as to where she goes and what she sees - so please send any and all of your tips to @KatieRogers, #TwiTrips.One of the things she's aiming to get to is the Pecos rodeo - one of the biggest rodeos in the West - which starts next Wednesday. Has anyone been? Do you have any tips - especially places to stay?Updated at 2.42pm BST 1.42pm BST It's got a reputation for being the ultimate macho state - but is it gay friendly too? Reader @itsdannygray asks:What places would you recommend the LGBT community visiting?It would be great to get some tips on this. What are the best gay-friendly destinations? Can anyone recommend gay-friendly hotels, bars or clubs? A quick google search brings up this website: gaytexas.com but there must be more up-to-date websites/guides/magazines/blogs out there. If you have a favourite resource share it in the comments below. 1.12pm BST Another reader has even less time on the road in Texas. @vickihopkop says:We are doing a road trip from New Orleans to LA next month. We only have 3 days to get across Texas and want one night in Austin. I was thinking to spend our first night around Beaumont, TX and our third night around Midland,TX so if you have any suggestions for things to see in these areas (or better places to stop off) that would be great!Texans \u2013 we need your help! Any thoughts on this proposed route? Do you know any great hotels or motels around Beaumont or Midland? Or is there a better route?\u00a0 12.48pm BST @KSalty asks:Thinking about a Texas/New Mexico road trip next year - how much ground could we realistically cover in 6 days without being too pushed or should we stick to one of the two states instead of attempting both? Would love to see Austin, and read somewhere about a highway with great vintage barns strung along it as good place to pick up antiques - anyone know where this is?Can anyone advise? How much could you do in six days without spending your entire time behind the wheel? Any suggested routes starting or ending in Austin? All tips welcome \u2013 post them in the comments below. 12.33pm BST Two tippers (@berolpen and @Lauren Modery) recommend staying at El Cosmico in Marfa, west Texas. Sounds great \u2013 vintage trailers, safari tents, Sioux teepees all spread over 18 acres with hammocks, an outdoor kitchen and wood-fired hot tubs.Marfa, a tiny town surrounded by wilderness, has become the unlikely funky art capital of west Texas with galleries galore \u2013 you can read Jennifer Cox's Guardian Travel story on Marfa here.El Cosmico reflects the creative, hippy spirit of the town describing itself as \"part creative lab, greenhouse and amphitheatre - a community space that fosters and agitates artistic and intellectual exchange\". The perfect lodgings for this unconventional corner of the Lone Star State, then. 12.10pm BST Howdy! We're heading out west. We've got a brilliant line-up of experts who will be live online later today (at 3pm BST). In the meantime we've already had some top tips \u2013 and questions.@greenveldt has moved to New Mexico but is interested in exploring western Texas. Marfa and Big Bend are already on the radar but they ask:Is there any place else in the Texas Panhandle that y'all would recommend? I heard Guadalupe National Park is nice...@LaurenModery repsonded with these suggestions:You should check out Amistad, Marathon, Alpine, Terlingua and Monahans Sand Dunes and YES! Guadalupe Mountains and Big Bend!Can anyone else recommend other must-see places? Or great accommodation, places to eat, quirky attractions? If you live in the area \u2013 or have travelled there \u2013 we'd love to hear your tips for @greenveldt. You can respond to this and other questions - or post your own question \u2013 in the comments below.Happy travels.  4.59pm BST Want to know the way to Amarillo? Or Santa Fe? Or, as Guardian journalist Katie Rogers will be discovering next week on her Twitrip, the best route from Austin to Albuquerque? Then you\u2019re in the right place. We\u2019ve brought together a panel of Texas and New Mexico experts to answer your questions about travel and holidays in America\u2019s south-west.Texas offers so much more than ranches and rodeos; a drive through the state is a journey through layers of history, passing landscapes where ancient indigenous dwellers made their marks on stone walls and towns such as Marfa, which modern artists have turned into a buzzy cultural hotspot, via the missions, music and food of a region that was once part of Mexico.In New Mexico, you\u2019ll find historic missions and natural spas, Navajo culture, and maybe even UFOs (if you're planning a visit to Roswell), all surrounded by a jaw-dropping landscape of canyons, caves and sandstone cliffs.Together these two states offer visitors the chance to explore an America of staggering beauty, steeped in Hispanic history with some of the best music, most cutting-edge art and tastiest food you\u2019ll find in the US \u2013 and some of its friendliest people.Whether you have a query about a planned trip, or don\u2019t know where to start in this vast region, post your questions in the comments and the panel will be live online on Thursday 20 June from 3-4pm BST to give their advice and tips.THE PANELTexas Ramona Flume is a seventh-generation Texan and freelance travel writer for publications including Budget Travel and Texas Highways. Whether she\u2019s driving hours (and hours) across the Lone Star state to find the perfect piece of pie, or hiking through the jungles of Colombia, she believes the best way to be happy in life is to keep moving. When she\u2019s not on the road, she writes about the unique culture and creative community of her home town: Austin, Texas.Lauren Modery is a freelance writer and screenwriter based out of Austin, Texas. She writes about the city she loves at hipstercrite.com and her work can be seen on Guardian.co.uk, xoJane, Austin Monthly and CultureMap. When she isn\u2019t slouching over the computer, she enjoys frequenting Austin\u2019s diviest and most historical restaurants, theatres and bars, and road tripping through the enormous state of Texas. Loves Her Gun, a film she co-wrote and co-produced, premiered at SXSW 2013.Andy Rhodes has been living and travelling in Texas since 1994. He is the author of Moon Texas and Moon Houston and the Texas Gulf Coast. He is managing editor of the Texas Historical Commission\u2019s magazine The Medallion, and his freelance articles have been published in American Cowboy and Austin Monthly magazines.J.C. Reid is a food and travel writer based in Houston, Texas. His writing has been featured in the Houston Chronicle, Texas Monthly magazine, and the New York Times. After taking a \u201cpermanent sabbatical\u201d from an early career as an architect, he now writes and travels full time. You can follow along on his adventures at his blog jcreidtx.com and on Twitter @houston_foodie.New Mexico Karen Denison owns Outspire Hiking and Snowshoeing, a guide service based in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where she has lived for nearly 30 years. In her spare time, she fly fishes, backpacks and blogs about the forests, mountains, and canyons of northern New Mexico at\u00a0blog.outspire.com.James Orndorf is a photographer and illustrator living in Four Corners, where New Mexico, Colorado, Arizona and Utah meet. He is a frequent contributor to theamericanguide.org, an online revival of a series of tour books published in the late 30s and early 40s, and theydrawandtravel.com, a collection of maps by artists from around the world. You can follow him hiking around the American south-west via his blog inlandwest.tumblr.com and his website roughshelter.com.Megan Eaves was born and raised in New Mexico and remains a south-west girl at heart, even though she now lives in London. She is the author of Insiders Guide to El Paso and works as an online content producer for Lonely Planet. Her writing as appeared in the Independent, CNN Travel, the Prague Post, Perceptive Travel, USAToday.com and WildJunket. You can find her at meganeaveswriting.com or on Twitter @megoizzy.Zora O\u2019Neill grew up outside Albuquerque, New Mexico, and now lives in New York City. She comes back to her home state regularly for a fix of sun, mountains and green chile \u2014 and to update her two guidebooks, Moon New Mexico and Moon Santa Fe, Taos and Albuquerque. She loves local food traditions, and she writes about these and other travel topics for publications such as the New York Times and Conde Nast Traveler. She blogs at Roving Gastronome.Updated at 2.29pm BST", "tags": ["Texas holidays", "New Mexico holidays", "Travel", "United States holidays"], "title": "Texas and New Mexico \u2013 expert Q&A"},{"date": "2013-07-16T03:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The famously bloodthirsty boss of Mexico's most notoriously violent drug cartel has been captured by Mexican marines without a shot being fired, authorities have said.Miguel Angel Trevi\u00f1o Morales, the leader of the Zetas cartel, was arrested 17 miles outside the border city of Nuevo Laredo in the north-east corner of Mexico, long a stronghold of the organisation.A navy helicopter pursued the pickup truck in which Trevi\u00f1o was traveling along unpaved back roads towards the city at 3.45am on Monday and forced it to stop, government security spokesman Eduardo S\u00e1nchez told reporters. He said ground reinforcements then arrested the drug baron along with two other occupants of the vehicle who were initially thought to be his accountant and a bodyguard.\"No shots were fired,\" Sanchez said, adding that marines found eight assault weapons and 500 rounds of ammunition inside the pickup, as well as two million dollars.\"He is wanted on charges of drug trafficking, murder, torture, unauthorised possession of firearms among other crimes,\" the spokesman said, highlighting his alleged responsibility in the kidnapping and murder of 265 migrants in Zeta territory.Sanch\u00e9z, who insisted the operation was the result of months of intelligence work, said all three detainees had been flown to Mexico City and were being held for initial questioning in the organised crime unit of the attorney general's Office.The arrest of the kingpin known as Z-40 is the first high profile takedown of a drug baron since President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto took office in December with Mexico in the midst of a complex tapestry of cartel turf wars.The violence is estimated to have killed well over 80,000 people since Pe\u00f1a Nieto's predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, launched a military led crackdown on organised crime in 2006 that triggered more violence. The bloodletting has continued into the new administration at about the same rate, with the government insisting that it needs more time to make good on its promises to slash the death toll.The Zetas have played a crucial role in much of the violence, with Trevi\u00f1o long a leading figure within the group. He took over full control after his long-time close collaborator Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, alias El Lazca, was killed in a shootout with the authorities in 2012.The latest major blow against the group will not necessarily lead to a drop in the violence. Trevi\u00f1o's most likely successor is reported to be his younger brother Omar, though he is not anything like as well known and is believed to be far weaker. This could increase the chances of bloody internal power struggles or a full blown split.The Zetas are renowned as one of the most brutal of all Mexico's trafficking groups, all of which regularly indulge in extreme violence such as beheadings and massacres. The group is particularly well known for augmenting its drug trafficking profits with other criminal activities such as extortion and kidnapping, including mass abductions and murders of central American migrants passing through Mexico on their way to the United States.The group was originally formed in the late 1990s within the Gulf cartel from a core of deserters from a special forces unit in the army. The Zetas and the Gulf eventually split in 2010, triggering a prolonged period of near conventional-style warfare between the two groups in north-eastern Mexico.The Zetas have also maintained a long-running rivalry with other cartels, particularly the Sinaloa cartel headed by Mexico's most famous trafficker, Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n. Guzm\u00e1n may be strengthened by Trevi\u00f1o's arrest.Trevi\u00f1o, now said to be in his 40s, reportedly began his life of crime as a teenager in a Nuevo Laredo gang and was one of the few major leaders of the Zetas without a military background.He reputedly sealed his status within the cartel by successfully leading the group's defence of its Nuevo Laredo bastion against an attempted invasion by the Sinaloa cartel in 2005. \u00a0The brutality and openness of the battles back then were the first real taste of the drug wars to come.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico arrests Zetas cartel leader"},{"date": "2013-07-16T03:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The famously bloodthirsty boss of Mexico's most notoriously violent drug cartel has been captured by Mexican marines without a shot being fired, authorities have said.Miguel Angel Trevi\u00f1o Morales, the leader of the Zetas cartel, was arrested 17 miles outside the border city of Nuevo Laredo in the north-east corner of Mexico, long a stronghold of the organisation.A navy helicopter pursued the pickup truck in which Trevi\u00f1o was traveling along unpaved back roads towards the city at 3.45am on Monday and forced it to stop, government security spokesman Eduardo S\u00e1nchez told reporters. He said ground reinforcements then arrested the drug baron along with two other occupants of the vehicle who were initially thought to be his accountant and a bodyguard.\"No shots were fired,\" Sanchez said, adding that marines found eight assault weapons and 500 rounds of ammunition inside the pickup, as well as two million dollars.\"He is wanted on charges of drug trafficking, murder, torture, unauthorised possession of firearms among other crimes,\" the spokesman said, highlighting his alleged responsibility in the kidnapping and murder of 265 migrants in Zeta territory.Sanch\u00e9z, who insisted the operation was the result of months of intelligence work, said all three detainees had been flown to Mexico City and were being held for initial questioning in the organised crime unit of the attorney general's Office.The arrest of the kingpin known as Z-40 is the first high profile takedown of a drug baron since President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto took office in December with Mexico in the midst of a complex tapestry of cartel turf wars.The violence is estimated to have killed well over 80,000 people since Pe\u00f1a Nieto's predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, launched a military led crackdown on organised crime in 2006 that triggered more violence. The bloodletting has continued into the new administration at about the same rate, with the government insisting that it needs more time to make good on its promises to slash the death toll.The Zetas have played a crucial role in much of the violence, with Trevi\u00f1o long a leading figure within the group. He took over full control after his long-time close collaborator Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, alias El Lazca, was killed in a shootout with the authorities in 2012.The latest major blow against the group will not necessarily lead to a drop in the violence. Trevi\u00f1o's most likely successor is reported to be his younger brother Omar, though he is not anything like as well known and is believed to be far weaker. This could increase the chances of bloody internal power struggles or a full blown split.The Zetas are renowned as one of the most brutal of all Mexico's trafficking groups, all of which regularly indulge in extreme violence such as beheadings and massacres. The group is particularly well known for augmenting its drug trafficking profits with other criminal activities such as extortion and kidnapping, including mass abductions and murders of central American migrants passing through Mexico on their way to the United States.The group was originally formed in the late 1990s within the Gulf cartel from a core of deserters from a special forces unit in the army. The Zetas and the Gulf eventually split in 2010, triggering a prolonged period of near conventional-style warfare between the two groups in north-eastern Mexico.The Zetas have also maintained a long-running rivalry with other cartels, particularly the Sinaloa cartel headed by Mexico's most famous trafficker, Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n. Guzm\u00e1n may be strengthened by Trevi\u00f1o's arrest.Trevi\u00f1o, now said to be in his 40s, reportedly began his life of crime as a teenager in a Nuevo Laredo gang and was one of the few major leaders of the Zetas without a military background.He reputedly sealed his status within the cartel by successfully leading the group's defence of its Nuevo Laredo bastion against an attempted invasion by the Sinaloa cartel in 2005. \u00a0The brutality and openness of the battles back then were the first real taste of the drug wars to come.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico arrests Zetas cartel leader"},{"date": "2013-09-20T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico, which is reeling from two storms which left more than 97 people dead, was braced for more devastation on Thursday night after a third made landfall.Hurricane Manuel reached the northwestern state of Sinaloa on Thursday, adding to a growing countrywide crisis that has seen the death toll rising every day along with new reports of acute emergencies requiring attention.So far the worst affected area has been the southern state of Guerrero which was hit by an earlier version of Manuel when it first made landfall on Monday as a tropical storm before dissipating, returning to sea and regaining strength.The full extent of the disaster, however, is only now beginning to emerge as news of death, destruction and dwindling supplies of food in mountain communities takes over from the more visible chaos the storm caused in big cities such as Acapulco.Fifty-eight people were still missing after part of a hillside collapsed on top of much of the coffee-growing village of La Pintada, leaving survivors trapped between a swollen river they cannot cross and the still unstable mountain that is threatening to fall apart again at any moment.\"We have not seen a single body yet and at the moment we are focused on rescuing the villagers still there,\" interior minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told MVS Radio. He said that the authorities had already airlifted 300 people to safety but were struggling to get to the remaining 45 because of adverse weather conditions.The minister revealed that the day's priorities also included reaching at least three other isolated communities in Guerrero to check out reports of similar, if smaller, landslides.\"There are many places that we cannot get to by land or by air,\" he said. The new push to reach marooned towns and villages comes after claims the government ignored poor indigenous communities to focus on big urban centres such as Acapulco.Even there, however, the authorities are struggling to cope with the crisis that flooded much of the city, including the airport, and left 40,000 holidaymakers trapped and increasingly desperate.The authorities say that about 12,000 tourists have been airlifted out so far with the help of alternative landing strips. They hope to re-establish the road link between the resort and Mexico City that was blocked by multiple landslides by Friday.Meanwhile, 21 other Mexican states, out of a total of 32, are also facing serious damage as a result of both Manuel's first incarnation and Hurricane Ingrid that also hit the mainland on Monday, rolling in from the other side. Osorio Chong said 49,000 people have been evacuated across the country, with 33,000 of them currently housed in shelters.With no end in sight to the crisis, meteorologists were also monitoring an entirely new weather system they predicted would become a named tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico in the next few hours and could potentially follow a similar path to Ingrid after that. \"The panorama does not look good,\" Osorio Chong said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Hurricanes", "Americas", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Mexico braces for third deadly storm"},{"date": "2013-07-16T03:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The famously bloodthirsty boss of Mexico's most notoriously violent drug cartel has been captured by Mexican marines without a shot being fired, authorities have said.Miguel Angel Trevi\u00f1o Morales, the leader of the Zetas cartel, was arrested 17 miles outside the border city of Nuevo Laredo in the north-east corner of Mexico, long a stronghold of the organisation.A navy helicopter pursued the pickup truck in which Trevi\u00f1o was traveling along unpaved back roads towards the city at 3.45am on Monday and forced it to stop, government security spokesman Eduardo S\u00e1nchez told reporters. He said ground reinforcements then arrested the drug baron along with two other occupants of the vehicle who were initially thought to be his accountant and a bodyguard.\"No shots were fired,\" Sanchez said, adding that marines found eight assault weapons and 500 rounds of ammunition inside the pickup, as well as two million dollars.\"He is wanted on charges of drug trafficking, murder, torture, unauthorised possession of firearms among other crimes,\" the spokesman said, highlighting his alleged responsibility in the kidnapping and murder of 265 migrants in Zeta territory.Sanch\u00e9z, who insisted the operation was the result of months of intelligence work, said all three detainees had been flown to Mexico City and were being held for initial questioning in the organised crime unit of the attorney general's Office.The arrest of the kingpin known as Z-40 is the first high profile takedown of a drug baron since President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto took office in December with Mexico in the midst of a complex tapestry of cartel turf wars.The violence is estimated to have killed well over 80,000 people since Pe\u00f1a Nieto's predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, launched a military led crackdown on organised crime in 2006 that triggered more violence. The bloodletting has continued into the new administration at about the same rate, with the government insisting that it needs more time to make good on its promises to slash the death toll.The Zetas have played a crucial role in much of the violence, with Trevi\u00f1o long a leading figure within the group. He took over full control after his long-time close collaborator Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, alias El Lazca, was killed in a shootout with the authorities in 2012.The latest major blow against the group will not necessarily lead to a drop in the violence. Trevi\u00f1o's most likely successor is reported to be his younger brother Omar, though he is not anything like as well known and is believed to be far weaker. This could increase the chances of bloody internal power struggles or a full blown split.The Zetas are renowned as one of the most brutal of all Mexico's trafficking groups, all of which regularly indulge in extreme violence such as beheadings and massacres. The group is particularly well known for augmenting its drug trafficking profits with other criminal activities such as extortion and kidnapping, including mass abductions and murders of central American migrants passing through Mexico on their way to the United States.The group was originally formed in the late 1990s within the Gulf cartel from a core of deserters from a special forces unit in the army. The Zetas and the Gulf eventually split in 2010, triggering a prolonged period of near conventional-style warfare between the two groups in north-eastern Mexico.The Zetas have also maintained a long-running rivalry with other cartels, particularly the Sinaloa cartel headed by Mexico's most famous trafficker, Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n. Guzm\u00e1n may be strengthened by Trevi\u00f1o's arrest.Trevi\u00f1o, now said to be in his 40s, reportedly began his life of crime as a teenager in a Nuevo Laredo gang and was one of the few major leaders of the Zetas without a military background.He reputedly sealed his status within the cartel by successfully leading the group's defence of its Nuevo Laredo bastion against an attempted invasion by the Sinaloa cartel in 2005. \u00a0The brutality and openness of the battles back then were the first real taste of the drug wars to come.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico arrests Zetas cartel leader"},{"date": "2013-09-20T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico, which is reeling from two storms which left more than 97 people dead, was braced for more devastation on Thursday night after a third made landfall.Hurricane Manuel reached the northwestern state of Sinaloa on Thursday, adding to a growing countrywide crisis that has seen the death toll rising every day along with new reports of acute emergencies requiring attention.So far the worst affected area has been the southern state of Guerrero which was hit by an earlier version of Manuel when it first made landfall on Monday as a tropical storm before dissipating, returning to sea and regaining strength.The full extent of the disaster, however, is only now beginning to emerge as news of death, destruction and dwindling supplies of food in mountain communities takes over from the more visible chaos the storm caused in big cities such as Acapulco.Fifty-eight people were still missing after part of a hillside collapsed on top of much of the coffee-growing village of La Pintada, leaving survivors trapped between a swollen river they cannot cross and the still unstable mountain that is threatening to fall apart again at any moment.\"We have not seen a single body yet and at the moment we are focused on rescuing the villagers still there,\" interior minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told MVS Radio. He said that the authorities had already airlifted 300 people to safety but were struggling to get to the remaining 45 because of adverse weather conditions.The minister revealed that the day's priorities also included reaching at least three other isolated communities in Guerrero to check out reports of similar, if smaller, landslides.\"There are many places that we cannot get to by land or by air,\" he said. The new push to reach marooned towns and villages comes after claims the government ignored poor indigenous communities to focus on big urban centres such as Acapulco.Even there, however, the authorities are struggling to cope with the crisis that flooded much of the city, including the airport, and left 40,000 holidaymakers trapped and increasingly desperate.The authorities say that about 12,000 tourists have been airlifted out so far with the help of alternative landing strips. They hope to re-establish the road link between the resort and Mexico City that was blocked by multiple landslides by Friday.Meanwhile, 21 other Mexican states, out of a total of 32, are also facing serious damage as a result of both Manuel's first incarnation and Hurricane Ingrid that also hit the mainland on Monday, rolling in from the other side. Osorio Chong said 49,000 people have been evacuated across the country, with 33,000 of them currently housed in shelters.With no end in sight to the crisis, meteorologists were also monitoring an entirely new weather system they predicted would become a named tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico in the next few hours and could potentially follow a similar path to Ingrid after that. \"The panorama does not look good,\" Osorio Chong said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Hurricanes", "Americas", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Mexico braces for third deadly storm"},{"date": "2013-09-04T16:42:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "I first came to Mexico as part of a college summer semester abroad program in 1987 and for the better part of the last 25 years have lived in Mexico. My college semester was based in the once lovely town of Cuernavaca, known by the nickname \"City of Eternal Spring\". Today, Cuernavaca is the 18th most dangerous city in the world, according to a report published by El Consejo Ciudadano para la Seguridad Publica y la Justicia Penal A.C.I still spend most weekends in Cuernavaca. From my informal study of local news reports, the daily death toll is between one and four. It's a rare day that there are no murders. In August, there were news reports that the morgue is full, 60 or so unidentified dead, the vast majority of them murdered.Mexico has 9 cities listed in the top 50 most dangerous cities in the world. I have seen the violence first-hand. A good friend was killed due to wounds inflicted from being shot in an attempted robbery while eating a taco at an open taco stand in Mexico City on a Saturday morning . As a sales executive for a major home appliance company based in Monterrey, I have fond memories of many clients. My top client for high-end products is based in San Pedro, Monterrey. She now lives at an undisclosed location in the Yucatan Peninsula due to fears of being kidnapped. Another friend of mine, a former senior advertising executive, finally realized his dream of opening a furniture store in Mexico City, only to be kidnapped and extorted. He closed his business and told me quite simply that \"You cannot do business in Mexico\". To be fair, Mexico has advanced at least from a macroeconomic perspective. When I first arrived, the Mexican peso had more zeros than one could count, inflation was close to 100% with high unemployment and all of the other issues affecting a very troubled economy. Today, GDP growth is positive, Mexico has many trade agreements, democracy exists, and economically speaking, Mexico is stable, although about half the population lives in poverty. Mexico is a fragile point, as President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, who is in his first year in office, knows well. I fear that much of the progress I have seen since I moved here will be undone.The violence is mostly drug related. The drug business for Mexico represents around $50 billion, according to some sources. Obviously, no one knows the full extent. That's a lot of money, more than tourism and remittances, which are two basic sources other than oil for the entry of foreign currency into Mexico. How is that money used? Payoffs to police and politicians perhaps, payoffs to border guards perhaps, saved in tunnels and safe houses for future use and, of course, the purchase of weapons principally from the US. What we do know is that the \"drug war\" has claimed 60,000 lives in Mexico since 2006 alone. The drug business won't disappear as long as drug users use. Assuming that we cannot stop drug use, the best solution may be to get that money into the formal economy. How, I do not know, nor do I wish to express an opinion on the legalization of drugs, but I do know that if that money could be saved legally, most of the corruption would disappear. How to reduce the violence, prompt the drug cartels to compete on quality and service and other commercial strategies for success, rather than fight over territories and routes through the US. It's easier said than done, and I don't have a plan to propose, but it seems unlikely any government can \"win\" a physical fight against the cartels.Many poor young people now see the drug business as their only real employment option. The official minimum wage in Mexico is just over (US) $5 dollars a day. One solution is to force multinational companies to pay something similar to their workers in Mexico as they pay their workers in their country of origin. Some might argue that would cause businesses to flee to China, but I'm not convinced. I was once a product manager at a Mexican based multinational company. I can clearly remember the stack of products now packed and lined up outside of the plant. Each product of the first row of stacked products was sliced many times. I was baffled until I was informed that the products were sliced by the workers as they left the plant. What is the real cost savings for multinationals paying these low wages? There are clearly success stories in Mexico, demonstrated by the fact that Mexico is home to the world's wealthiest person, Carlos Slim, but unfortunately there are more sad stories of violence and despair. Mexico is a great country. Despite its troubles, I'm still here, but something is clearly not right. Maybe it's as former Mexican President Porfirio Diaz famously said \"Poor Mexico, so far from God and so close to the United States!\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: on the verge of a meltdown | Stanley Hart"},{"date": "2013-07-16T03:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The famously bloodthirsty boss of Mexico's most notoriously violent drug cartel has been captured by Mexican marines without a shot being fired, authorities have said.Miguel Angel Trevi\u00f1o Morales, the leader of the Zetas cartel, was arrested 17 miles outside the border city of Nuevo Laredo in the north-east corner of Mexico, long a stronghold of the organisation.A navy helicopter pursued the pickup truck in which Trevi\u00f1o was traveling along unpaved back roads towards the city at 3.45am on Monday and forced it to stop, government security spokesman Eduardo S\u00e1nchez told reporters. He said ground reinforcements then arrested the drug baron along with two other occupants of the vehicle who were initially thought to be his accountant and a bodyguard.\"No shots were fired,\" Sanchez said, adding that marines found eight assault weapons and 500 rounds of ammunition inside the pickup, as well as two million dollars.\"He is wanted on charges of drug trafficking, murder, torture, unauthorised possession of firearms among other crimes,\" the spokesman said, highlighting his alleged responsibility in the kidnapping and murder of 265 migrants in Zeta territory.Sanch\u00e9z, who insisted the operation was the result of months of intelligence work, said all three detainees had been flown to Mexico City and were being held for initial questioning in the organised crime unit of the attorney general's Office.The arrest of the kingpin known as Z-40 is the first high profile takedown of a drug baron since President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto took office in December with Mexico in the midst of a complex tapestry of cartel turf wars.The violence is estimated to have killed well over 80,000 people since Pe\u00f1a Nieto's predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, launched a military led crackdown on organised crime in 2006 that triggered more violence. The bloodletting has continued into the new administration at about the same rate, with the government insisting that it needs more time to make good on its promises to slash the death toll.The Zetas have played a crucial role in much of the violence, with Trevi\u00f1o long a leading figure within the group. He took over full control after his long-time close collaborator Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, alias El Lazca, was killed in a shootout with the authorities in 2012.The latest major blow against the group will not necessarily lead to a drop in the violence. Trevi\u00f1o's most likely successor is reported to be his younger brother Omar, though he is not anything like as well known and is believed to be far weaker. This could increase the chances of bloody internal power struggles or a full blown split.The Zetas are renowned as one of the most brutal of all Mexico's trafficking groups, all of which regularly indulge in extreme violence such as beheadings and massacres. The group is particularly well known for augmenting its drug trafficking profits with other criminal activities such as extortion and kidnapping, including mass abductions and murders of central American migrants passing through Mexico on their way to the United States.The group was originally formed in the late 1990s within the Gulf cartel from a core of deserters from a special forces unit in the army. The Zetas and the Gulf eventually split in 2010, triggering a prolonged period of near conventional-style warfare between the two groups in north-eastern Mexico.The Zetas have also maintained a long-running rivalry with other cartels, particularly the Sinaloa cartel headed by Mexico's most famous trafficker, Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n. Guzm\u00e1n may be strengthened by Trevi\u00f1o's arrest.Trevi\u00f1o, now said to be in his 40s, reportedly began his life of crime as a teenager in a Nuevo Laredo gang and was one of the few major leaders of the Zetas without a military background.He reputedly sealed his status within the cartel by successfully leading the group's defence of its Nuevo Laredo bastion against an attempted invasion by the Sinaloa cartel in 2005. \u00a0The brutality and openness of the battles back then were the first real taste of the drug wars to come.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico arrests Zetas cartel leader"},{"date": "2013-09-20T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico, which is reeling from two storms which left more than 97 people dead, was braced for more devastation on Thursday night after a third made landfall.Hurricane Manuel reached the northwestern state of Sinaloa on Thursday, adding to a growing countrywide crisis that has seen the death toll rising every day along with new reports of acute emergencies requiring attention.So far the worst affected area has been the southern state of Guerrero which was hit by an earlier version of Manuel when it first made landfall on Monday as a tropical storm before dissipating, returning to sea and regaining strength.The full extent of the disaster, however, is only now beginning to emerge as news of death, destruction and dwindling supplies of food in mountain communities takes over from the more visible chaos the storm caused in big cities such as Acapulco.Fifty-eight people were still missing after part of a hillside collapsed on top of much of the coffee-growing village of La Pintada, leaving survivors trapped between a swollen river they cannot cross and the still unstable mountain that is threatening to fall apart again at any moment.\"We have not seen a single body yet and at the moment we are focused on rescuing the villagers still there,\" interior minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told MVS Radio. He said that the authorities had already airlifted 300 people to safety but were struggling to get to the remaining 45 because of adverse weather conditions.The minister revealed that the day's priorities also included reaching at least three other isolated communities in Guerrero to check out reports of similar, if smaller, landslides.\"There are many places that we cannot get to by land or by air,\" he said. The new push to reach marooned towns and villages comes after claims the government ignored poor indigenous communities to focus on big urban centres such as Acapulco.Even there, however, the authorities are struggling to cope with the crisis that flooded much of the city, including the airport, and left 40,000 holidaymakers trapped and increasingly desperate.The authorities say that about 12,000 tourists have been airlifted out so far with the help of alternative landing strips. They hope to re-establish the road link between the resort and Mexico City that was blocked by multiple landslides by Friday.Meanwhile, 21 other Mexican states, out of a total of 32, are also facing serious damage as a result of both Manuel's first incarnation and Hurricane Ingrid that also hit the mainland on Monday, rolling in from the other side. Osorio Chong said 49,000 people have been evacuated across the country, with 33,000 of them currently housed in shelters.With no end in sight to the crisis, meteorologists were also monitoring an entirely new weather system they predicted would become a named tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico in the next few hours and could potentially follow a similar path to Ingrid after that. \"The panorama does not look good,\" Osorio Chong said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Hurricanes", "Americas", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Mexico braces for third deadly storm"},{"date": "2013-09-04T16:42:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "I first came to Mexico as part of a college summer semester abroad program in 1987 and for the better part of the last 25 years have lived in Mexico. My college semester was based in the once lovely town of Cuernavaca, known by the nickname \"City of Eternal Spring\". Today, Cuernavaca is the 18th most dangerous city in the world, according to a report published by El Consejo Ciudadano para la Seguridad Publica y la Justicia Penal A.C.I still spend most weekends in Cuernavaca. From my informal study of local news reports, the daily death toll is between one and four. It's a rare day that there are no murders. In August, there were news reports that the morgue is full, 60 or so unidentified dead, the vast majority of them murdered.Mexico has 9 cities listed in the top 50 most dangerous cities in the world. I have seen the violence first-hand. A good friend was killed due to wounds inflicted from being shot in an attempted robbery while eating a taco at an open taco stand in Mexico City on a Saturday morning . As a sales executive for a major home appliance company based in Monterrey, I have fond memories of many clients. My top client for high-end products is based in San Pedro, Monterrey. She now lives at an undisclosed location in the Yucatan Peninsula due to fears of being kidnapped. Another friend of mine, a former senior advertising executive, finally realized his dream of opening a furniture store in Mexico City, only to be kidnapped and extorted. He closed his business and told me quite simply that \"You cannot do business in Mexico\". To be fair, Mexico has advanced at least from a macroeconomic perspective. When I first arrived, the Mexican peso had more zeros than one could count, inflation was close to 100% with high unemployment and all of the other issues affecting a very troubled economy. Today, GDP growth is positive, Mexico has many trade agreements, democracy exists, and economically speaking, Mexico is stable, although about half the population lives in poverty. Mexico is a fragile point, as President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, who is in his first year in office, knows well. I fear that much of the progress I have seen since I moved here will be undone.The violence is mostly drug related. The drug business for Mexico represents around $50 billion, according to some sources. Obviously, no one knows the full extent. That's a lot of money, more than tourism and remittances, which are two basic sources other than oil for the entry of foreign currency into Mexico. How is that money used? Payoffs to police and politicians perhaps, payoffs to border guards perhaps, saved in tunnels and safe houses for future use and, of course, the purchase of weapons principally from the US. What we do know is that the \"drug war\" has claimed 60,000 lives in Mexico since 2006 alone. The drug business won't disappear as long as drug users use. Assuming that we cannot stop drug use, the best solution may be to get that money into the formal economy. How, I do not know, nor do I wish to express an opinion on the legalization of drugs, but I do know that if that money could be saved legally, most of the corruption would disappear. How to reduce the violence, prompt the drug cartels to compete on quality and service and other commercial strategies for success, rather than fight over territories and routes through the US. It's easier said than done, and I don't have a plan to propose, but it seems unlikely any government can \"win\" a physical fight against the cartels.Many poor young people now see the drug business as their only real employment option. The official minimum wage in Mexico is just over (US) $5 dollars a day. One solution is to force multinational companies to pay something similar to their workers in Mexico as they pay their workers in their country of origin. Some might argue that would cause businesses to flee to China, but I'm not convinced. I was once a product manager at a Mexican based multinational company. I can clearly remember the stack of products now packed and lined up outside of the plant. Each product of the first row of stacked products was sliced many times. I was baffled until I was informed that the products were sliced by the workers as they left the plant. What is the real cost savings for multinationals paying these low wages? There are clearly success stories in Mexico, demonstrated by the fact that Mexico is home to the world's wealthiest person, Carlos Slim, but unfortunately there are more sad stories of violence and despair. Mexico is a great country. Despite its troubles, I'm still here, but something is clearly not right. Maybe it's as former Mexican President Porfirio Diaz famously said \"Poor Mexico, so far from God and so close to the United States!\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: on the verge of a meltdown | Stanley Hart"},{"date": "2013-09-19T12:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When Vice-President Joseph Biden travels to Mexico this week to meet with the country's new president, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, he will not be speaking with an enlightened democratic leader but a representative of the nation's corrupt oligarchy. The widespread image of Pe\u00f1a Nieto as a bold reformist struggling against the forces of nostalgic reaction is about as accurate as Vladimir Putin's presentation of Bashar al-Assad as a distinguished statesman.After only ten months in power, Pe\u00f1a Nieto has driven the economy into a wall, ignited widespread social protest, ramped up human rights violations and allowed violence and corruption to spin out of control. These failures have expanded the chasm between the political class and civil society in a way that makes Mexico increasingly look like Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador before the rise of Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, Evo Morales and Rafael Correa. The levels of citizen trust in government have reached record lows and enormous protests led by teachers, students and peasants have erupted throughout the country.But the outcome in Mexico could be much more explosive than in these South American nations. While Ch\u00e1vez, Morales and Correa played by the rules and reached power through democratic elections, in Mexico the opposition is quickly losing faith in the possibility of achieving social change by electoral means. The fraud and vast irregularities committed during the last two presidential elections, in 2006 and 2012, has led many to look for alternative ways to express their demands.After the failure of the neoliberal economic reforms of the 1980s to bring the peace and prosperity promised by the \"Washington Consensus\" to Latin America, most of the region turned to the political left in search of a more socially conscious alternative. Over the last 15 years, almost every country in the region has joined the \"pink tide\" of social-democratic governments, including Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Paraguay, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Peru, in addition to Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia.Colombia and Mexico stand out as glaring exceptions to this trend. Both countries today remain solidly within the neoliberal framework and are led by presidents who anxiously kowtow to Washington and are quick to lean on violent force to crush social or political opposition. The recent explosion of social mobilization in both countries should therefore not surprise anyone. Decades of pent-up grievances are finally rising to the surface and demanding to be heard.Demographic trends amplify this tendency in Mexico. Urbanization, increased education levels, greater accessibility of information technology and a boom in the youth population have led to a more conscious civil society. Although television and radio continue to be as monochromatic and authoritarian as they were during the old days of Mexico's \"perfect dictatorship\", it is no longer necessary to hide in the hinterlands to develop networks of resistance \u2013 as was the case with the guerrilla movements of the 1970s. Anti-establishment organizing can now take place in the light of day.In this context, Mexico's Pe\u00f1a Nieto has chosen the wrong governance strategy. Instead of reaching out to society and addressing Mexico's great problems of inequality and impunity, he has stubbornly insisted on consolidating the neoliberal project by dismantling the remnants of Mexico's social pact inherited from the country's historic revolution of 1910.As president-elect, Pe\u00f1a Nieto worked with outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n to push labor reform through Congress that limits the ability of workers to defend themselves against unjust firing practices and expands both temporary employment and subcontracting. Once in office, the new president moved quickly to pass education reform that will allow him to summarily fire hundreds of thousands of experienced elementary and secondary school teachers throughout the country.This attack on labor rights has a political motive. The Mexican teachers' union is the largest in Latin America, with 1.2 million members, and the unionized working class is typically one of the most important voices for the redistribution of wealth and strengthening social policy. The rural teachers from the neglected southern states of Oaxaca, Michoac\u00e1n and Guerrero, who are protesting today in Mexico City, have a particularly strong tradition of community activism and political mobilization, which goes back almost a century.Pe\u00f1a Nieto has presented his attack on workers as an effort to stop corrupt union leaders. But in fact, the new president has consolidated the corporatist and clientelistic control over the unions. For instance, the jailed leader of the teachers' union, Elba Esther Gordillo, has been replaced by her righthand man, Juan D\u00edaz de la Torre, who has faithfully continued with her corrupt and authoritarian practices.Pe\u00f1a Nieto has also failed to live up to his promise to create a new independent anti-corruption agency to root out malfeasance throughout government. The new president is apparently more interested in consolidating his personal power than in democratizing public affairs.Pe\u00f1a Nieto's second step, after weakening the working class, has been to shore up his support among Mexico's oligarchs. The president first pushed through a telecommunications reform, the central purpose of which is to allow him to better distribute the enormous and ever-expanding pie of this sector between his friends and allies. His next move is to privatize Mexico\u00b4s oil industry. Pe\u00f1a Nieto recently presented a proposal to reform the Mexican constitution, which would allow him to sideline Mexico's state oil company, Pemex, and divide up the country's vast oil reserves for the profit of an array of transnational oil corporations. Such a move would dangerously undermine one of the central foundations of Mexico's modern social pact, by drastically reducing fiscal revenues and allowing foreign interests to control one of the most strategic areas of the economy.Meanwhile, violence, corruption and impunity have expanded. Over 1,000 people continue to fall dead each month due to the \"drug war\", the number of kidnappings has exploded, and both provocateurs and arbitrary arrests are now commonplace at marches and protests.Under Pe\u00f1a Nieto's watch, a cast of doubtful characters has been freed from jail, including the convicted assassin of a DEA agent, an army general accused of links to narco-traffickers, and a French woman accused of participating in multiple kidnappings. Also, $19m have recently been returned to the brother of one of Mexico's most corrupt past presidents, Carlos Salinas, who also happens to be Pe\u00f1a Nieto's most important political mentor.In contrast, indigenous leaders, rural teachers, community police and students have been systematically attacked, jailed and threatened. In the most recent display of arbitrary force, this past Friday, 13 September, federal police forcibly removed protesting teachers from Mexico's central Zocalo square, in clear violation of their right to assembly and freedom of speech.The police brutally beat numerous activists and arbitrarily jailed dozens of others, including a distinguished economics professor from Montana, Wesley Marshall, who happened to be passing through the area. Such actions have led to increased social discontent and prepare the ground for a scenario similar to what has occurred recently in Turkey and Brazil, with massive street protests.President Barack Obama has let down the tens of millions of Mexicans who live and work in the United States by having so far failed to get his promised immigration reform through Congress. But now, he has equally failed more than 110 million Mexicans who live south of the R\u00edo Grande through his alliance with and support for Mexico's corrupt leaders \u2013 first Calder\u00f3n, and now Pe\u00f1a Nieto.The people of North America should not be fooled by the embraces and praises that will be exchanged this week between Joe Biden and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. The solutions to our common problems will not come from such hypocritical political discourse, but from creative binational citizen action.", "tags": ["Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Joe Biden", "US news", "Mexico", "Protest", "US immigration", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Drugs trade", "Unions", "World news"], "title": "Biden's visit to Mexico: what you should know, Joe | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2013-07-16T03:55:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The famously bloodthirsty boss of Mexico's most notoriously violent drug cartel has been captured by Mexican marines without a shot being fired, authorities have said.Miguel Angel Trevi\u00f1o Morales, the leader of the Zetas cartel, was arrested 17 miles outside the border city of Nuevo Laredo in the north-east corner of Mexico, long a stronghold of the organisation.A navy helicopter pursued the pickup truck in which Trevi\u00f1o was traveling along unpaved back roads towards the city at 3.45am on Monday and forced it to stop, government security spokesman Eduardo S\u00e1nchez told reporters. He said ground reinforcements then arrested the drug baron along with two other occupants of the vehicle who were initially thought to be his accountant and a bodyguard.\"No shots were fired,\" Sanchez said, adding that marines found eight assault weapons and 500 rounds of ammunition inside the pickup, as well as two million dollars.\"He is wanted on charges of drug trafficking, murder, torture, unauthorised possession of firearms among other crimes,\" the spokesman said, highlighting his alleged responsibility in the kidnapping and murder of 265 migrants in Zeta territory.Sanch\u00e9z, who insisted the operation was the result of months of intelligence work, said all three detainees had been flown to Mexico City and were being held for initial questioning in the organised crime unit of the attorney general's Office.The arrest of the kingpin known as Z-40 is the first high profile takedown of a drug baron since President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto took office in December with Mexico in the midst of a complex tapestry of cartel turf wars.The violence is estimated to have killed well over 80,000 people since Pe\u00f1a Nieto's predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, launched a military led crackdown on organised crime in 2006 that triggered more violence. The bloodletting has continued into the new administration at about the same rate, with the government insisting that it needs more time to make good on its promises to slash the death toll.The Zetas have played a crucial role in much of the violence, with Trevi\u00f1o long a leading figure within the group. He took over full control after his long-time close collaborator Heriberto Lazcano Lazcano, alias El Lazca, was killed in a shootout with the authorities in 2012.The latest major blow against the group will not necessarily lead to a drop in the violence. Trevi\u00f1o's most likely successor is reported to be his younger brother Omar, though he is not anything like as well known and is believed to be far weaker. This could increase the chances of bloody internal power struggles or a full blown split.The Zetas are renowned as one of the most brutal of all Mexico's trafficking groups, all of which regularly indulge in extreme violence such as beheadings and massacres. The group is particularly well known for augmenting its drug trafficking profits with other criminal activities such as extortion and kidnapping, including mass abductions and murders of central American migrants passing through Mexico on their way to the United States.The group was originally formed in the late 1990s within the Gulf cartel from a core of deserters from a special forces unit in the army. The Zetas and the Gulf eventually split in 2010, triggering a prolonged period of near conventional-style warfare between the two groups in north-eastern Mexico.The Zetas have also maintained a long-running rivalry with other cartels, particularly the Sinaloa cartel headed by Mexico's most famous trafficker, Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n. Guzm\u00e1n may be strengthened by Trevi\u00f1o's arrest.Trevi\u00f1o, now said to be in his 40s, reportedly began his life of crime as a teenager in a Nuevo Laredo gang and was one of the few major leaders of the Zetas without a military background.He reputedly sealed his status within the cartel by successfully leading the group's defence of its Nuevo Laredo bastion against an attempted invasion by the Sinaloa cartel in 2005. \u00a0The brutality and openness of the battles back then were the first real taste of the drug wars to come.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico arrests Zetas cartel leader"},{"date": "2013-09-20T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico, which is reeling from two storms which left more than 97 people dead, was braced for more devastation on Thursday night after a third made landfall.Hurricane Manuel reached the northwestern state of Sinaloa on Thursday, adding to a growing countrywide crisis that has seen the death toll rising every day along with new reports of acute emergencies requiring attention.So far the worst affected area has been the southern state of Guerrero which was hit by an earlier version of Manuel when it first made landfall on Monday as a tropical storm before dissipating, returning to sea and regaining strength.The full extent of the disaster, however, is only now beginning to emerge as news of death, destruction and dwindling supplies of food in mountain communities takes over from the more visible chaos the storm caused in big cities such as Acapulco.Fifty-eight people were still missing after part of a hillside collapsed on top of much of the coffee-growing village of La Pintada, leaving survivors trapped between a swollen river they cannot cross and the still unstable mountain that is threatening to fall apart again at any moment.\"We have not seen a single body yet and at the moment we are focused on rescuing the villagers still there,\" interior minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told MVS Radio. He said that the authorities had already airlifted 300 people to safety but were struggling to get to the remaining 45 because of adverse weather conditions.The minister revealed that the day's priorities also included reaching at least three other isolated communities in Guerrero to check out reports of similar, if smaller, landslides.\"There are many places that we cannot get to by land or by air,\" he said. The new push to reach marooned towns and villages comes after claims the government ignored poor indigenous communities to focus on big urban centres such as Acapulco.Even there, however, the authorities are struggling to cope with the crisis that flooded much of the city, including the airport, and left 40,000 holidaymakers trapped and increasingly desperate.The authorities say that about 12,000 tourists have been airlifted out so far with the help of alternative landing strips. They hope to re-establish the road link between the resort and Mexico City that was blocked by multiple landslides by Friday.Meanwhile, 21 other Mexican states, out of a total of 32, are also facing serious damage as a result of both Manuel's first incarnation and Hurricane Ingrid that also hit the mainland on Monday, rolling in from the other side. Osorio Chong said 49,000 people have been evacuated across the country, with 33,000 of them currently housed in shelters.With no end in sight to the crisis, meteorologists were also monitoring an entirely new weather system they predicted would become a named tropical storm in the Gulf of Mexico in the next few hours and could potentially follow a similar path to Ingrid after that. \"The panorama does not look good,\" Osorio Chong said.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Hurricanes", "Americas", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Mexico braces for third deadly storm"},{"date": "2013-09-04T16:42:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "I first came to Mexico as part of a college summer semester abroad program in 1987 and for the better part of the last 25 years have lived in Mexico. My college semester was based in the once lovely town of Cuernavaca, known by the nickname \"City of Eternal Spring\". Today, Cuernavaca is the 18th most dangerous city in the world, according to a report published by El Consejo Ciudadano para la Seguridad Publica y la Justicia Penal A.C.I still spend most weekends in Cuernavaca. From my informal study of local news reports, the daily death toll is between one and four. It's a rare day that there are no murders. In August, there were news reports that the morgue is full, 60 or so unidentified dead, the vast majority of them murdered.Mexico has 9 cities listed in the top 50 most dangerous cities in the world. I have seen the violence first-hand. A good friend was killed due to wounds inflicted from being shot in an attempted robbery while eating a taco at an open taco stand in Mexico City on a Saturday morning . As a sales executive for a major home appliance company based in Monterrey, I have fond memories of many clients. My top client for high-end products is based in San Pedro, Monterrey. She now lives at an undisclosed location in the Yucatan Peninsula due to fears of being kidnapped. Another friend of mine, a former senior advertising executive, finally realized his dream of opening a furniture store in Mexico City, only to be kidnapped and extorted. He closed his business and told me quite simply that \"You cannot do business in Mexico\". To be fair, Mexico has advanced at least from a macroeconomic perspective. When I first arrived, the Mexican peso had more zeros than one could count, inflation was close to 100% with high unemployment and all of the other issues affecting a very troubled economy. Today, GDP growth is positive, Mexico has many trade agreements, democracy exists, and economically speaking, Mexico is stable, although about half the population lives in poverty. Mexico is a fragile point, as President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, who is in his first year in office, knows well. I fear that much of the progress I have seen since I moved here will be undone.The violence is mostly drug related. The drug business for Mexico represents around $50 billion, according to some sources. Obviously, no one knows the full extent. That's a lot of money, more than tourism and remittances, which are two basic sources other than oil for the entry of foreign currency into Mexico. How is that money used? Payoffs to police and politicians perhaps, payoffs to border guards perhaps, saved in tunnels and safe houses for future use and, of course, the purchase of weapons principally from the US. What we do know is that the \"drug war\" has claimed 60,000 lives in Mexico since 2006 alone. The drug business won't disappear as long as drug users use. Assuming that we cannot stop drug use, the best solution may be to get that money into the formal economy. How, I do not know, nor do I wish to express an opinion on the legalization of drugs, but I do know that if that money could be saved legally, most of the corruption would disappear. How to reduce the violence, prompt the drug cartels to compete on quality and service and other commercial strategies for success, rather than fight over territories and routes through the US. It's easier said than done, and I don't have a plan to propose, but it seems unlikely any government can \"win\" a physical fight against the cartels.Many poor young people now see the drug business as their only real employment option. The official minimum wage in Mexico is just over (US) $5 dollars a day. One solution is to force multinational companies to pay something similar to their workers in Mexico as they pay their workers in their country of origin. Some might argue that would cause businesses to flee to China, but I'm not convinced. I was once a product manager at a Mexican based multinational company. I can clearly remember the stack of products now packed and lined up outside of the plant. Each product of the first row of stacked products was sliced many times. I was baffled until I was informed that the products were sliced by the workers as they left the plant. What is the real cost savings for multinationals paying these low wages? There are clearly success stories in Mexico, demonstrated by the fact that Mexico is home to the world's wealthiest person, Carlos Slim, but unfortunately there are more sad stories of violence and despair. Mexico is a great country. Despite its troubles, I'm still here, but something is clearly not right. Maybe it's as former Mexican President Porfirio Diaz famously said \"Poor Mexico, so far from God and so close to the United States!\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: on the verge of a meltdown | Stanley Hart"},{"date": "2013-09-19T12:30:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When Vice-President Joseph Biden travels to Mexico this week to meet with the country's new president, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, he will not be speaking with an enlightened democratic leader but a representative of the nation's corrupt oligarchy. The widespread image of Pe\u00f1a Nieto as a bold reformist struggling against the forces of nostalgic reaction is about as accurate as Vladimir Putin's presentation of Bashar al-Assad as a distinguished statesman.After only ten months in power, Pe\u00f1a Nieto has driven the economy into a wall, ignited widespread social protest, ramped up human rights violations and allowed violence and corruption to spin out of control. These failures have expanded the chasm between the political class and civil society in a way that makes Mexico increasingly look like Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador before the rise of Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, Evo Morales and Rafael Correa. The levels of citizen trust in government have reached record lows and enormous protests led by teachers, students and peasants have erupted throughout the country.But the outcome in Mexico could be much more explosive than in these South American nations. While Ch\u00e1vez, Morales and Correa played by the rules and reached power through democratic elections, in Mexico the opposition is quickly losing faith in the possibility of achieving social change by electoral means. The fraud and vast irregularities committed during the last two presidential elections, in 2006 and 2012, has led many to look for alternative ways to express their demands.After the failure of the neoliberal economic reforms of the 1980s to bring the peace and prosperity promised by the \"Washington Consensus\" to Latin America, most of the region turned to the political left in search of a more socially conscious alternative. Over the last 15 years, almost every country in the region has joined the \"pink tide\" of social-democratic governments, including Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Paraguay, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Peru, in addition to Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia.Colombia and Mexico stand out as glaring exceptions to this trend. Both countries today remain solidly within the neoliberal framework and are led by presidents who anxiously kowtow to Washington and are quick to lean on violent force to crush social or political opposition. The recent explosion of social mobilization in both countries should therefore not surprise anyone. Decades of pent-up grievances are finally rising to the surface and demanding to be heard.Demographic trends amplify this tendency in Mexico. Urbanization, increased education levels, greater accessibility of information technology and a boom in the youth population have led to a more conscious civil society. Although television and radio continue to be as monochromatic and authoritarian as they were during the old days of Mexico's \"perfect dictatorship\", it is no longer necessary to hide in the hinterlands to develop networks of resistance \u2013 as was the case with the guerrilla movements of the 1970s. Anti-establishment organizing can now take place in the light of day.In this context, Mexico's Pe\u00f1a Nieto has chosen the wrong governance strategy. Instead of reaching out to society and addressing Mexico's great problems of inequality and impunity, he has stubbornly insisted on consolidating the neoliberal project by dismantling the remnants of Mexico's social pact inherited from the country's historic revolution of 1910.As president-elect, Pe\u00f1a Nieto worked with outgoing president Felipe Calder\u00f3n to push labor reform through Congress that limits the ability of workers to defend themselves against unjust firing practices and expands both temporary employment and subcontracting. Once in office, the new president moved quickly to pass education reform that will allow him to summarily fire hundreds of thousands of experienced elementary and secondary school teachers throughout the country.This attack on labor rights has a political motive. The Mexican teachers' union is the largest in Latin America, with 1.2 million members, and the unionized working class is typically one of the most important voices for the redistribution of wealth and strengthening social policy. The rural teachers from the neglected southern states of Oaxaca, Michoac\u00e1n and Guerrero, who are protesting today in Mexico City, have a particularly strong tradition of community activism and political mobilization, which goes back almost a century.Pe\u00f1a Nieto has presented his attack on workers as an effort to stop corrupt union leaders. But in fact, the new president has consolidated the corporatist and clientelistic control over the unions. For instance, the jailed leader of the teachers' union, Elba Esther Gordillo, has been replaced by her righthand man, Juan D\u00edaz de la Torre, who has faithfully continued with her corrupt and authoritarian practices.Pe\u00f1a Nieto has also failed to live up to his promise to create a new independent anti-corruption agency to root out malfeasance throughout government. The new president is apparently more interested in consolidating his personal power than in democratizing public affairs.Pe\u00f1a Nieto's second step, after weakening the working class, has been to shore up his support among Mexico's oligarchs. The president first pushed through a telecommunications reform, the central purpose of which is to allow him to better distribute the enormous and ever-expanding pie of this sector between his friends and allies. His next move is to privatize Mexico\u00b4s oil industry. Pe\u00f1a Nieto recently presented a proposal to reform the Mexican constitution, which would allow him to sideline Mexico's state oil company, Pemex, and divide up the country's vast oil reserves for the profit of an array of transnational oil corporations. Such a move would dangerously undermine one of the central foundations of Mexico's modern social pact, by drastically reducing fiscal revenues and allowing foreign interests to control one of the most strategic areas of the economy.Meanwhile, violence, corruption and impunity have expanded. Over 1,000 people continue to fall dead each month due to the \"drug war\", the number of kidnappings has exploded, and both provocateurs and arbitrary arrests are now commonplace at marches and protests.Under Pe\u00f1a Nieto's watch, a cast of doubtful characters has been freed from jail, including the convicted assassin of a DEA agent, an army general accused of links to narco-traffickers, and a French woman accused of participating in multiple kidnappings. Also, $19m have recently been returned to the brother of one of Mexico's most corrupt past presidents, Carlos Salinas, who also happens to be Pe\u00f1a Nieto's most important political mentor.In contrast, indigenous leaders, rural teachers, community police and students have been systematically attacked, jailed and threatened. In the most recent display of arbitrary force, this past Friday, 13 September, federal police forcibly removed protesting teachers from Mexico's central Zocalo square, in clear violation of their right to assembly and freedom of speech.The police brutally beat numerous activists and arbitrarily jailed dozens of others, including a distinguished economics professor from Montana, Wesley Marshall, who happened to be passing through the area. Such actions have led to increased social discontent and prepare the ground for a scenario similar to what has occurred recently in Turkey and Brazil, with massive street protests.President Barack Obama has let down the tens of millions of Mexicans who live and work in the United States by having so far failed to get his promised immigration reform through Congress. But now, he has equally failed more than 110 million Mexicans who live south of the R\u00edo Grande through his alliance with and support for Mexico's corrupt leaders \u2013 first Calder\u00f3n, and now Pe\u00f1a Nieto.The people of North America should not be fooled by the embraces and praises that will be exchanged this week between Joe Biden and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto. The solutions to our common problems will not come from such hypocritical political discourse, but from creative binational citizen action.", "tags": ["Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Joe Biden", "US news", "Mexico", "Protest", "US immigration", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "Drugs trade", "Unions", "World news"], "title": "Biden's visit to Mexico: what you should know, Joe | John Ackerman"},{"date": "2013-09-18T17:58:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With much of Mexico still reeling from the death, destruction and chaos caused by the impact of two tropical weather systems two days ago, forecasters are warning of more storms ahead.Tens of thousands of holidaymakers remain trapped in the resort city of Acapulco, so far the most visible victims of tropical storm Manuel that came in from the west on Monday, their frustration increasingly obvious in the long queues to get on the waiting lists for flights out of the city organised by the army and commercial airlines.Reports of rich families skipping the queues to take off in private jets threatened to further blacken the mood, as authorities urged tourists not to attempt to leave the city by land, with roads out expected to remain blocked by landslides until at least.Both in Acapulco and across the country, many thousands more have been forced out of their homes by both Manuel and hurricane Ingrid, which hit Mexico from the east almost simultaneously.The army and emergency services have been distributing food and water in shelters and the most devastated neighbourhoods, although reports are increasing of scarcity as well as panic buying and rapidly rising prices.The chaos has been accompanied by looting. Hundreds of people waded waste-deep through flood waters to ransack everything from toilet paper to personal computers from one Costco store in Acapulco.Meanwhile, the government raised the death toll to 57, with officials warning that it could increase further once communication is re-established. Many towns and villages are currently cut off by landslides and overflowing rivers. Adverse conditions continued to impede even information-gathering flights over some of these areas, giving rise to rumours that later faded such as 300 dead in one town.With emergency services stretched and desperation mounting, the remnants of Manuel regrouped into a tropical storm forecast to hit Mexico's north-west coaston Thursday . While this region was not badly affected by the earlier storms, the rainfall from the new storm is expected to spread into regions that were.A new tropical system has also formed in the south-east, although forecasters do not yet know if it is likely to roll into Mexico along a similar path to Ingrid, or perhaps head north to Texas or Louisiana in the US.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Acapulco", "Hurricane Irene", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "Mexico could be hit by more storms, warn weather forecasters"},{"date": "2013-11-20T09:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The president of Mexico has officially denied meeting Justin Bieber. Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto rejected Bieber's claim that he attended Bieber's recent concert in Mexico City, forcing the singer to issue a hasty correction.Bieber's diplomatic gaffe was part of a proud tweet on Monday night, posted before a gig at the Foro Sol. \"Just met some amazing mexican beliebers and the presidente of mexico and his familia,\" the pop star wrote. \"Now it is showtime. 60,000 [people] tonight ... te amo.\"Within three hours, Mexico's highest office issued its own statement, making clear that Pe\u00f1a Nieto never went anywhere near Canadian pop star. The next day, Bieber posted a follow-up: \"*correction. I met the presidente's family and all their friends in the private meet and greet with all their security. They were very nice.\" Paulina Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the president's daughter, is reportedly a huge pop fan. Last year, Enrique apparently bought five rows of One Direction tickets so the teenager could attend with all her friends.Bieber's presidential blunder is only the latest incident that's arisen from his South American tour. Earlier this month, the singer had to apologise for kicking an Argentine flag that had been thrown onto the stage in Buenos Aires. Desecrating the country's flag is punishable by up to four years in jail. \"Im being told by my team it was a shirt but even if it was a flag I would never do anything to disrespect Argentina,\" Bieber tweeted. \"Im so sorry for anyone who took my actions the wrong way and I hope you can forgive this mistake.\"Bieber was also widely criticised for abandoning one of his Buenos Aires concerts after less than an hour on stage. Scooter Braun, Bieber's manager, claimed the 19-year-old was diagnosed with food poisoning and had opted to perform against doctors' advice.", "tags": ["Music", "Justin Bieber", "Pop and rock", "Culture"], "title": "President of Mexico denies meeting Justin Bieber"},{"date": "2013-11-20T09:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The president of Mexico has officially denied meeting Justin Bieber. Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto rejected Bieber's claim that he attended Bieber's recent concert in Mexico City, forcing the singer to issue a hasty correction.Bieber's diplomatic gaffe was part of a proud tweet on Monday night, posted before a gig at the Foro Sol. \"Just met some amazing mexican beliebers and the presidente of mexico and his familia,\" the pop star wrote. \"Now it is showtime. 60,000 [people] tonight ... te amo.\"Within three hours, Mexico's highest office issued its own statement, making clear that Pe\u00f1a Nieto never went anywhere near Canadian pop star. The next day, Bieber posted a follow-up: \"*correction. I met the presidente's family and all their friends in the private meet and greet with all their security. They were very nice.\" Paulina Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the president's daughter, is reportedly a huge pop fan. Last year, Enrique apparently bought five rows of One Direction tickets so the teenager could attend with all her friends.Bieber's presidential blunder is only the latest incident that's arisen from his South American tour. Earlier this month, the singer had to apologise for kicking an Argentine flag that had been thrown onto the stage in Buenos Aires. Desecrating the country's flag is punishable by up to four years in jail. \"Im being told by my team it was a shirt but even if it was a flag I would never do anything to disrespect Argentina,\" Bieber tweeted. \"Im so sorry for anyone who took my actions the wrong way and I hope you can forgive this mistake.\"Bieber was also widely criticised for abandoning one of his Buenos Aires concerts after less than an hour on stage. Scooter Braun, Bieber's manager, claimed the 19-year-old was diagnosed with food poisoning and had opted to perform against doctors' advice.", "tags": ["Music", "Justin Bieber", "Pop and rock", "Culture"], "title": "President of Mexico denies meeting Justin Bieber"},{"date": "2013-10-09T10:19:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Members of the chillwave band Delorean were reportedly \"virtually kidnapped\" as their tour passed through Mexico City this weekend. While the Basque indie group are all now safely en route to a tour date in the US, thugs allegedly demanded 20m pesos (\u00a3940,000) in ransom money during the ordeal, which ended on Monday.According to El Pa\u00eds, Delorean had arrived in Mexico City to perform at last week's Mutek festival. They were contacted by alleged members of the Zetas gang, who threatened to kill the musicians if they did not obey very particular orders. Delorean agreed to change hotels, give up their mobile phones and buy new ones as per the gangsters' instructions.The \"kidnappers\" did not use guns or physical violence during the affair. They communicated with the band by phone, warning them that they were being watched and could be shot at any time. Meanwhile, they ordered the band members to make phonecalls to relatives, telling their families that they had been kidnapped and demanding a ransom of 5m pesos per person.After hearing from family members, Spanish federal police travelled from Madrid to Oiartzun to coordinate a response, El Pais reported, and working with Mexican authorities, eventually located the band. \"Initially we feared that the kidnapping was much more complicated and difficult,\" a spokesman told the newspaper. Luckily, it appears that Delorean were not actually being held by a group of gunmen \u2013 they just believed they were.While Delorean cancelled a 7 October gig in San Francisco, they will reportedly resume their tour tonight in Seattle. Two other Spanish acts, John Talabot and Pional, have since announced they are calling off a Mexican tour. \"We are happy that our friends Delorean are OK,\" Talabot wrote (via Consequence of Sound), \"[but] we are cancelling our tour in Mexico for security reasons.\"Founded in 2000, Delorean recently released their fourth album, Apar.", "tags": ["Electronic music", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chillwave band Delorean 'virtually kidnapped' in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-11-20T09:01:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The president of Mexico has officially denied meeting Justin Bieber. Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto rejected Bieber's claim that he attended Bieber's recent concert in Mexico City, forcing the singer to issue a hasty correction.Bieber's diplomatic gaffe was part of a proud tweet on Monday night, posted before a gig at the Foro Sol. \"Just met some amazing mexican beliebers and the presidente of mexico and his familia,\" the pop star wrote. \"Now it is showtime. 60,000 [people] tonight ... te amo.\"Within three hours, Mexico's highest office issued its own statement, making clear that Pe\u00f1a Nieto never went anywhere near Canadian pop star. The next day, Bieber posted a follow-up: \"*correction. I met the presidente's family and all their friends in the private meet and greet with all their security. They were very nice.\" Paulina Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the president's daughter, is reportedly a huge pop fan. Last year, Enrique apparently bought five rows of One Direction tickets so the teenager could attend with all her friends.Bieber's presidential blunder is only the latest incident that's arisen from his South American tour. Earlier this month, the singer had to apologise for kicking an Argentine flag that had been thrown onto the stage in Buenos Aires. Desecrating the country's flag is punishable by up to four years in jail. \"Im being told by my team it was a shirt but even if it was a flag I would never do anything to disrespect Argentina,\" Bieber tweeted. \"Im so sorry for anyone who took my actions the wrong way and I hope you can forgive this mistake.\"Bieber was also widely criticised for abandoning one of his Buenos Aires concerts after less than an hour on stage. Scooter Braun, Bieber's manager, claimed the 19-year-old was diagnosed with food poisoning and had opted to perform against doctors' advice.", "tags": ["Music", "Justin Bieber", "Pop and rock", "Culture"], "title": "President of Mexico denies meeting Justin Bieber"},{"date": "2013-10-09T10:19:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Members of the chillwave band Delorean were reportedly \"virtually kidnapped\" as their tour passed through Mexico City this weekend. While the Basque indie group are all now safely en route to a tour date in the US, thugs allegedly demanded 20m pesos (\u00a3940,000) in ransom money during the ordeal, which ended on Monday.According to El Pa\u00eds, Delorean had arrived in Mexico City to perform at last week's Mutek festival. They were contacted by alleged members of the Zetas gang, who threatened to kill the musicians if they did not obey very particular orders. Delorean agreed to change hotels, give up their mobile phones and buy new ones as per the gangsters' instructions.The \"kidnappers\" did not use guns or physical violence during the affair. They communicated with the band by phone, warning them that they were being watched and could be shot at any time. Meanwhile, they ordered the band members to make phonecalls to relatives, telling their families that they had been kidnapped and demanding a ransom of 5m pesos per person.After hearing from family members, Spanish federal police travelled from Madrid to Oiartzun to coordinate a response, El Pais reported, and working with Mexican authorities, eventually located the band. \"Initially we feared that the kidnapping was much more complicated and difficult,\" a spokesman told the newspaper. Luckily, it appears that Delorean were not actually being held by a group of gunmen \u2013 they just believed they were.While Delorean cancelled a 7 October gig in San Francisco, they will reportedly resume their tour tonight in Seattle. Two other Spanish acts, John Talabot and Pional, have since announced they are calling off a Mexican tour. \"We are happy that our friends Delorean are OK,\" Talabot wrote (via Consequence of Sound), \"[but] we are cancelling our tour in Mexico for security reasons.\"Founded in 2000, Delorean recently released their fourth album, Apar.", "tags": ["Electronic music", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chillwave band Delorean 'virtually kidnapped' in Mexico"},{"date": "2013-11-14T13:16:29Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When Presumed Guilty \u2013 the nightmarish tale of a street vendor in Mexico City who was twice wrongly convicted of murder \u2013 was released in 2011, it won an Emmy for investigative journalism, broke Mexican box-office records, and triggered a fierce debate over the country's dysfunctional judicial system.Nearly three years later, as important legal rulings are expected in two cases over the documentary, the film is banned in Mexico and the director has received death threats.\"The caller told me to tone things down or else,\" said Roberto Hern\u00e1ndez. \"The first threat was veiled, the second directly said they would kill me.\"Hern\u00e1ndez and his team set out to highlight the number of innocent people in the capital's jails through the story of a street vendor convicted of murder on very flimsy evidence amid obvious abuses of authority and due process. Less than a month after it was released in Mexico, the film was banned, but it became a pirate DVD sensation, raising hopes that the country's courts might be forced to clean up their act.Those hopes soon turned into fears of a clampdown on freedom of expression as a barrage of court cases against the film gathered steam. The final court hearings in one of the damages cases was held last week, with a ruling expected in a couple of months. Taken together, the compensation sought hovers around 3bn pesos (\u00a3150m).\"They are trying to make us litigate until we bleed,\" Hern\u00e1ndez told the Guardian. \"It is a terrible message for other journalists who might want to follow in our steps.\"The film's legal problems mostly stem from complaints from a witness who admits, on camera, that he lied about seeing the street vendor, Antonio Zu\u00f1iga, shoot the murder victim, and from the police officer who arrested Zu\u00f1iga without a warrant or any obvious grounds for suspicion.Neither plaintiff disputes the accuracy of the documentary, arguing instead that they never agreed to appear in it and have since been insulted in public places.Meanwhile, the ban on showing, broadcasting or selling the film in Mexico appears to be on the point of being revoked \u2013 but only because the judge ruled the complainant had not provided \"anthropometric proof\" that he actually appears in the film.\"It is the stupidest thing,\" Hernandez said. \"What we need from the court is an argument about freedom of expression.\"The film-maker has directly accused the Mexico City's judicial hierarchy of secretly driving the cases against Presumed Guilty forward in an effort to exact vengeance for the way the film exposed the entire system.Edgar El\u00edas Azar, the city's most senior judge, has denied any kind of meddling. \"We cannot shut the door to these people who are looking for compensation for the exploitation of their story, their life and their image,\" he told reporters last week.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Documentary", "Film"], "title": "Mexico accused of suppressing freedom of speech over hit documentary"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-20T14:22:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Even by the standards of a country wracked by armed struggle against drug cartels, the arrival of the leader of the world\u2019s last superpower is cause for heightened security.As Barack Obama swept into the Mexican industrial city of Toluca on Wednesday in his 10-ton armoured limo, an estimated 5,000 police were stationed on every street corner for miles around.Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto waited nervously in the foyer of the state governor\u2019s palace, hoping foreign praise for his economic reforms can help win over a sceptical domestic audience and put security fears aside.Back home in Washington, it is Barack Obama who is increasingly dismissed as a lame duck president: unable to persuade Congress to back even modest domestic reform. But, abroad, a US president still travels with the trappings of imperial power and an expectation that he has answers to difficult global problems.Yet the North American leaders summit that brought so much of Toluca\u2019s historic centre to a halt this week has proven to be a object lesson in the limits of US presidential power, both at home and abroad.The two issues at the top of minds in Mexico and Canada \u2013 immigration reform and the Keystone oil pipeline \u2013 were both firmly off the agenda: victims for now of congressional intransigence and a White House terrified of making it worse by losing November\u2019s midterm elections.The official purpose of the summit \u2013 deepening economic relations between the three North American neighbours and Asia \u2013 was similarly hamstrung by opposition to trade liberalisation among Democrats in Washington, who are refusing to give Obama authority to negotiate.Instead the summit looks likely to agree only a smattering of small bore reforms on trade and immigration: oiling the wheels of commerce with \u201ctrusted traveller status\u201d and red tape reductions for businessmen, rather than tackling the bigger social and environmental questions on everyone\u2019s lips.But even these agreements have been overshadowed in Toluca by the latest in a string of foreign crises to which the White House has no answers.Within minutes of Obama\u2019s arrival at the North American summit, he was forced to address events thousands of miles away in Kiev, where a brutal government crackdown on pro-western protestors has exposed the relative impotence of their champions in Washington and Brussels.Among US officials travelling with Obama, Russian support for the Ukrainian government repression has provoked comparisons with a similar stalemate in Syria, where the White House openly admits its strategy for aiding rebel groups is fading fast in the face of fresh government aggression.And when he flies back to Washington on Thursday morning, Obama faces another dilemma over what to do about Afghanistan\u2019s continued refusal to sign an agreement providing for a continued US security presence after its troop withdrawal later this year.The White House is expected to decide within days whether to give formal instructions to the Pentagon to prepare for an eventuality where no US forces are able to stay on.Although such scenario-planning has been going on for some time behind the scenes, a formal request before a Nato meeting in Brussels next week will expose Obama to fresh accusations that the US is being forced to cut and run from its 11-year mission to stabilise Afghanistan.White House strategists believe a war-weary US public will understand its reluctance to force the issue but it raises the prospect of no longer being able to counter terrorist groups in Afghanistan at a time when a similar withdrawal from Iraq has left insurgents back in control of the hard-fought-over city of Falluja.The crises in Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iraq are all much further from the US border than the smaller security worries of Mexico, but the combined sense of powerlessness is a stark reminder of the limits of US power.For now, the primary goal of US foreign policy seems instead to be one of expectation management. \u201cWe just can\u2019t solve everyone else\u2019s problems anymore,\u201d said one senior White House official privately.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Mexico", "Obama administration", "US political financing", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Stephen Harper", "Canada", "Democrats", "US immigration", "Ukraine"], "title": "Obama's trip to Mexico summit overshadowed by foreign policy crises"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-20T14:22:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Even by the standards of a country wracked by armed struggle against drug cartels, the arrival of the leader of the world\u2019s last superpower is cause for heightened security.As Barack Obama swept into the Mexican industrial city of Toluca on Wednesday in his 10-ton armoured limo, an estimated 5,000 police were stationed on every street corner for miles around.Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto waited nervously in the foyer of the state governor\u2019s palace, hoping foreign praise for his economic reforms can help win over a sceptical domestic audience and put security fears aside.Back home in Washington, it is Barack Obama who is increasingly dismissed as a lame duck president: unable to persuade Congress to back even modest domestic reform. But, abroad, a US president still travels with the trappings of imperial power and an expectation that he has answers to difficult global problems.Yet the North American leaders summit that brought so much of Toluca\u2019s historic centre to a halt this week has proven to be a object lesson in the limits of US presidential power, both at home and abroad.The two issues at the top of minds in Mexico and Canada \u2013 immigration reform and the Keystone oil pipeline \u2013 were both firmly off the agenda: victims for now of congressional intransigence and a White House terrified of making it worse by losing November\u2019s midterm elections.The official purpose of the summit \u2013 deepening economic relations between the three North American neighbours and Asia \u2013 was similarly hamstrung by opposition to trade liberalisation among Democrats in Washington, who are refusing to give Obama authority to negotiate.Instead the summit looks likely to agree only a smattering of small bore reforms on trade and immigration: oiling the wheels of commerce with \u201ctrusted traveller status\u201d and red tape reductions for businessmen, rather than tackling the bigger social and environmental questions on everyone\u2019s lips.But even these agreements have been overshadowed in Toluca by the latest in a string of foreign crises to which the White House has no answers.Within minutes of Obama\u2019s arrival at the North American summit, he was forced to address events thousands of miles away in Kiev, where a brutal government crackdown on pro-western protestors has exposed the relative impotence of their champions in Washington and Brussels.Among US officials travelling with Obama, Russian support for the Ukrainian government repression has provoked comparisons with a similar stalemate in Syria, where the White House openly admits its strategy for aiding rebel groups is fading fast in the face of fresh government aggression.And when he flies back to Washington on Thursday morning, Obama faces another dilemma over what to do about Afghanistan\u2019s continued refusal to sign an agreement providing for a continued US security presence after its troop withdrawal later this year.The White House is expected to decide within days whether to give formal instructions to the Pentagon to prepare for an eventuality where no US forces are able to stay on.Although such scenario-planning has been going on for some time behind the scenes, a formal request before a Nato meeting in Brussels next week will expose Obama to fresh accusations that the US is being forced to cut and run from its 11-year mission to stabilise Afghanistan.White House strategists believe a war-weary US public will understand its reluctance to force the issue but it raises the prospect of no longer being able to counter terrorist groups in Afghanistan at a time when a similar withdrawal from Iraq has left insurgents back in control of the hard-fought-over city of Falluja.The crises in Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iraq are all much further from the US border than the smaller security worries of Mexico, but the combined sense of powerlessness is a stark reminder of the limits of US power.For now, the primary goal of US foreign policy seems instead to be one of expectation management. \u201cWe just can\u2019t solve everyone else\u2019s problems anymore,\u201d said one senior White House official privately.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Mexico", "Obama administration", "US political financing", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Stephen Harper", "Canada", "Democrats", "US immigration", "Ukraine"], "title": "Obama's trip to Mexico summit overshadowed by foreign policy crises"},{"date": "2014-02-12T18:04:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A new law in the northern Mexican state of Sonora bans parents from registering names for their children defined by the authorities as \"derogatory, pejorative, discriminatory or lacking in meaning\".The civil registry is distributing a list of 61 such names to its local offices around the state that has been primarily drawn up from a revision of records of names registered in the past. These range from Burger King and Usnavy, to the Spanish words for scrotum and traffic, as well as famous names such as Hitler and Harry Potter.The director of the civil registry, Cristina Ram\u00edrez, said: \"The objective of the list is to protect children from being bullied because of their name. We know that bullying can seriously affect a child's personality and the development of social skills, and we want to do what we can from our area of responsibility.\"The use of odd names for children in Mexico has a long tradition, sometimes rooted in parents failing to understand the meaning of their choice. The Sonora list includes Anivdelarev, an abbreviation of the Spanish equivalent of \"anniversary of the revolution\" that is often printed on calendars and is sometimes mistaken by parents as the name of a saint associated with that date.The list also includes names that would be unremarkable, such as Hermione and James Bond, were they not deemed to have uncomfortable connotations for children. Facebook and Twitter made the blacklist for preventative reasons, despite the fact that no such registrations have so far occurred in Mexico.Civil registries across the country began seeking to dissuade parents from giving their children names believed to make them vulnerable to mockery in 2009 but, Ram\u00edrez said, experience has shown this is not enough. She said the Sonora list would be revised every few months with a view to adding new names as they arose. \"Some people are saying were are attacking the liberty of parents. We think these names attack the superior interests of the child,\" she said.Burger KingRobocopTerminatorHitlerLady DiEmailVirgen (Virgin)Escroto (Scrotum)HermioneBatmanUsnavy (US Navy)MichelineTr\u00e1nsito (Traffic)Ces\u00e1rea (Cesarean)", "tags": ["Mexico", "Baby names", "Law", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: parents in Sonora prevented from giving children odd names"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-20T14:22:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Even by the standards of a country wracked by armed struggle against drug cartels, the arrival of the leader of the world\u2019s last superpower is cause for heightened security.As Barack Obama swept into the Mexican industrial city of Toluca on Wednesday in his 10-ton armoured limo, an estimated 5,000 police were stationed on every street corner for miles around.Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto waited nervously in the foyer of the state governor\u2019s palace, hoping foreign praise for his economic reforms can help win over a sceptical domestic audience and put security fears aside.Back home in Washington, it is Barack Obama who is increasingly dismissed as a lame duck president: unable to persuade Congress to back even modest domestic reform. But, abroad, a US president still travels with the trappings of imperial power and an expectation that he has answers to difficult global problems.Yet the North American leaders summit that brought so much of Toluca\u2019s historic centre to a halt this week has proven to be a object lesson in the limits of US presidential power, both at home and abroad.The two issues at the top of minds in Mexico and Canada \u2013 immigration reform and the Keystone oil pipeline \u2013 were both firmly off the agenda: victims for now of congressional intransigence and a White House terrified of making it worse by losing November\u2019s midterm elections.The official purpose of the summit \u2013 deepening economic relations between the three North American neighbours and Asia \u2013 was similarly hamstrung by opposition to trade liberalisation among Democrats in Washington, who are refusing to give Obama authority to negotiate.Instead the summit looks likely to agree only a smattering of small bore reforms on trade and immigration: oiling the wheels of commerce with \u201ctrusted traveller status\u201d and red tape reductions for businessmen, rather than tackling the bigger social and environmental questions on everyone\u2019s lips.But even these agreements have been overshadowed in Toluca by the latest in a string of foreign crises to which the White House has no answers.Within minutes of Obama\u2019s arrival at the North American summit, he was forced to address events thousands of miles away in Kiev, where a brutal government crackdown on pro-western protestors has exposed the relative impotence of their champions in Washington and Brussels.Among US officials travelling with Obama, Russian support for the Ukrainian government repression has provoked comparisons with a similar stalemate in Syria, where the White House openly admits its strategy for aiding rebel groups is fading fast in the face of fresh government aggression.And when he flies back to Washington on Thursday morning, Obama faces another dilemma over what to do about Afghanistan\u2019s continued refusal to sign an agreement providing for a continued US security presence after its troop withdrawal later this year.The White House is expected to decide within days whether to give formal instructions to the Pentagon to prepare for an eventuality where no US forces are able to stay on.Although such scenario-planning has been going on for some time behind the scenes, a formal request before a Nato meeting in Brussels next week will expose Obama to fresh accusations that the US is being forced to cut and run from its 11-year mission to stabilise Afghanistan.White House strategists believe a war-weary US public will understand its reluctance to force the issue but it raises the prospect of no longer being able to counter terrorist groups in Afghanistan at a time when a similar withdrawal from Iraq has left insurgents back in control of the hard-fought-over city of Falluja.The crises in Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iraq are all much further from the US border than the smaller security worries of Mexico, but the combined sense of powerlessness is a stark reminder of the limits of US power.For now, the primary goal of US foreign policy seems instead to be one of expectation management. \u201cWe just can\u2019t solve everyone else\u2019s problems anymore,\u201d said one senior White House official privately.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Mexico", "Obama administration", "US political financing", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Stephen Harper", "Canada", "Democrats", "US immigration", "Ukraine"], "title": "Obama's trip to Mexico summit overshadowed by foreign policy crises"},{"date": "2014-02-12T18:04:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A new law in the northern Mexican state of Sonora bans parents from registering names for their children defined by the authorities as \"derogatory, pejorative, discriminatory or lacking in meaning\".The civil registry is distributing a list of 61 such names to its local offices around the state that has been primarily drawn up from a revision of records of names registered in the past. These range from Burger King and Usnavy, to the Spanish words for scrotum and traffic, as well as famous names such as Hitler and Harry Potter.The director of the civil registry, Cristina Ram\u00edrez, said: \"The objective of the list is to protect children from being bullied because of their name. We know that bullying can seriously affect a child's personality and the development of social skills, and we want to do what we can from our area of responsibility.\"The use of odd names for children in Mexico has a long tradition, sometimes rooted in parents failing to understand the meaning of their choice. The Sonora list includes Anivdelarev, an abbreviation of the Spanish equivalent of \"anniversary of the revolution\" that is often printed on calendars and is sometimes mistaken by parents as the name of a saint associated with that date.The list also includes names that would be unremarkable, such as Hermione and James Bond, were they not deemed to have uncomfortable connotations for children. Facebook and Twitter made the blacklist for preventative reasons, despite the fact that no such registrations have so far occurred in Mexico.Civil registries across the country began seeking to dissuade parents from giving their children names believed to make them vulnerable to mockery in 2009 but, Ram\u00edrez said, experience has shown this is not enough. She said the Sonora list would be revised every few months with a view to adding new names as they arose. \"Some people are saying were are attacking the liberty of parents. We think these names attack the superior interests of the child,\" she said.Burger KingRobocopTerminatorHitlerLady DiEmailVirgen (Virgin)Escroto (Scrotum)HermioneBatmanUsnavy (US Navy)MichelineTr\u00e1nsito (Traffic)Ces\u00e1rea (Cesarean)", "tags": ["Mexico", "Baby names", "Law", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: parents in Sonora prevented from giving children odd names"},{"date": "2014-02-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Water in Mexico City comes out of the tap in a variety of colours (yellow, rusty or earthy tints), flavours (sulphuric, chlorinated or metallic) and textures (muddy or gritty). Water that doesn't smell, taste or look funky, however, is actually more dangerous, for it can sucker people into believing that it's drinkable. In general, all those who have other options don't drink the tap water.The quality of water supplied to buildings here has consistently been ranked at the bottom of any list of world cities. In addition, rusty pipes, mould and old water tanks made from asbestos (prohibited since the 1970s but still used in lower-income buildings) can add harmful substances to the water. Over time, poor quality water can corrode the pipes and eventually cause them to burst.The water I need to replenish my bodily fluids and to keep myself clean is pumped in daily through an underground pipe that empties into a huge cistern buried underneath the patio. An electric pump located in the patio lifts the water up from the cistern and into the large plastic water tank located on the roof, which in turn channels water back down into the bathroom, shower and kitchen.In Mexico City, water is not free and every two months I must pay for the water I use. My apartment produces its own hot water with a gas-powered water heater located on my terrace, and the gas must be bought from a private company that sends a truck each month to fill up a stationary tank on the roof with liquified gas.The lack of free, publicly supplied quality drinking water generates great business opportunities. To have water to drink, I buy large plastic jugs of water from bicycles equipped with a platform in front that service the neighborhood. Although each jug is relatively inexpensive, paying for water to drink is an added expense that adds up over the year.It is not only drinking water that people must purchase. While those living in higher-income neighborhoods get cheap, government-subsidised tap water, the poorest parts of the population have no plumbing and receive no water at all in their homes. Those who live beyond the reach of the city's water pipes must buy water from trucks (called pipas) that distribute water out of a large hose at an even higher cost. For those who have no access to hot water in their homes, or those who lack indoor plumbing, there exists banos publicos. These public baths, which are actually private businesses, offer individual and communal showers for a modest fee, Turkish baths and saunas (soapy massages offered by teenage boys cost extra).Public toilets also represent a booming private business niche these days, especially in the most visited tourist sites of the city, where for a small fee you receive access to urinals or toilets with toilet paper handed to you when you enter (some WCs even operate like the Metro, with ticket windows and turnstiles). Being that most of these WCs and some of the banos publicos are not licensed, chances are they don't even pay for the large quantity of water used.To get access to needed water, whether it is in the shower, toilet or in a glass, you must pay for it. Yet even if people in the city are willing to pay for their water, soon there might not even be enough to go around.Mexico City uses more water each day than any other city in the world. With its own water sources overexploited, an increasingly large part of its water must be brought in from outside the Mexico City valley.So when I turn on the tap in my flat, the liquid that flows into my sink now mostly comes from distant bodies of water. Given that Mexico City is a mile-high mountain valley, bringing water up and into the city requires some pretty heavy duty machinery. Beginning in 1951, the Lerma river, located in the Toluca valley about 40 miles (70km) from the city, was the first outside water system to be tapped for use by residents of Mexico City.The Lerma waterworks located in Chapultepec Park, equipped with pumps and pipes that connected the city to this distant water source, was an incredible engineering feat, acclaimed by the federal government (even though dozens of workers were killed in the process) and graced by the world's first underwater mural \u2013 Water, The Origin of Life, by Diego Rivera. For decades, the Lerma contributed up to 15% of Mexico City's water. Over the last few decades, however, it has largely been sucked dry. What's left of this once-great waterway is forcefed 170,000 tonnes of toxic slime from the factories, industrial parks and irregular cities located along the banks of the river.As the Mexico City population has grown exponentially, other water sources have had to be tapped to meet the increasing demand. And as its pipes suck up water from further and further away, its water costs have increased exponentially. The Cutzamala river, twice as far away as the Lerma, now supplies up to one-third of Mexico City's water needs. The fact that local communities are being deprived of their own water sources in order to service the capital is a cause of discontent.The Mazahua Indians who have lived around the Cutzamala for centuries now lack access to their own river water, and violent protests have resulted. In addition, as water sources tend to be interconnected, by overexploiting the river to supply drinking water to Mexico City residents, the Chapala lake in the very distant state of Jalisco is drying up.Lack of rainfall and higher temperatures lead to lower levels in the main water sources outside the city (dams in Cutzmala have recently been as low as 30% of their capacity), and the quality of water pumped in from the bottom of these dams is poor. In extreme cases, such as the widespread death of fish due to increased temperatures, these water sources can be poisoned. Although Mexico City as a whole depends on Cutzmala for only 30% of its water, some areas, such as the Santa Fe neighborhood in the south of the city, depend completely on water from this source and suffer droughts when its water levels sink.Pumping more and more water up and into Mexico City requires more and more electricity. To meet this increased demand, more and more dams have been built on the country's rivers. These dams monopolise the local use of the water and often force whole towns to move from their homeland, in turn leading to a flood of migrants into Mexico City. Many of the millions of urban land invaders in Mexico City over the past few decades are farmers who fled rural areas impoverished from an inadequate access to water.The new, haphazard cities these forced immigrants have created creep up and cover the mountains surrounding the city, destroying the trees and forests that normally replenish oxygen and protect the soil from becoming unusable dirt and dust. The lack of trees in turn puts these areas at risk of flooding and mudslides that claim human lives each year. In addition, the new cities populated with millions of inhabitants that have sprung up around the periphery of Mexico City over the past couple of decades have put an added strain on the city's water supply.Water has long ceased to be a free, readily available natural resource. Paying for a natural substance like water seems unnatural, which is perhaps why a good percentage of people and companies in Mexico City don't pay their water bills. If the city government should decide one day to end the subsidies and make customers pay the real cost of the poor quality liquid that comes out of their taps, blood would flow instead of water.The demand for water in Mexico City doubles every 20 years, twice as fast as the population growth. For each square metre of new urban construction, 50 gallons of recoverable rainfall are lost each year, while for each acre of land occupied by humans the water that could be destined for more than 3,000 families is lost. With the relentless urbanisation of every part of the Mexico City valley, water is becoming less and less a renewable resource and more and more a scarce commodity.Although the excrement that I and millions of others dump each day into toilets throughout Mexico City takes an amazing voyage beneath the city streets, through 6,000 miles of pipes, 68 pump stations and across almost 100 miles of canals, tunnels, dikes and artificial lakes, it has an uncanny knack of finding its way back to me.The disposal of human sewage (known as aguas negras) has always been a major problem. Since the Spanish colony was first established here, canals and rivers have been used as dumping grounds for human faeces, with thousands of prisoners and indigenous workers forced to dredge the constantly clogged waterways. The fresh water lakes that irrigated the city's crops and provided drinking water also served as dumping grounds for humans, and this contaminated water (so toxic it was said to burn duck feathers) spread its stench and disease throughout the city. To deal with this situation, three huge, costly sewage works (the Western Interceptor in 1789, the Great Canal in 1900 and the Central Source in 1975) were built to funnel the aguas negras out of the city. As a result, a good chunk of the city's human sewage now rides rivers all the way out to the Gulf of Mexico or the Pacific Ocean. Most, however, remains much closer to home.In 1971, the federal government selected the Mezquital valley in the state of Hidalgo, about 50 miles north of Mexico City, as the ideal destination for the majority of the capital's massive amount of human waste. In fact, though, towns in the region had already been receiving faecal matter from the capital ever since the first sewage pipe funnelled excrement outside of Mexico City in 1608. As the land in the Mezquital valley is arid and lacks its own water supply, raw sewage from Mexico City is used to irrigate almost 40,000 acres of cropland. The sewage sent to the area receives absolutely no treatment, even the most basic one of separating solids from liquids, and thus the valley, watered by the greatest concentration of aguas negras in all of Latin America, is commonly referred to as the world's largest outhouse.Human sewage might help float the local economy but it does so at a price. In return for being able to use sewage as a source of water for crops, locals suffer the stench that emanates from the miasma, and hordes of flies, rats, and other vermin invade the towns in search of sustenance. Local farmers are prone to several acute and chronic health problems, especially skin and intestinal diseases caused by all sorts of especially nasty parasites, but they are not the only people infected. The vegetables grown in the valley (along with all the microorganisms residing within) are transported daily to Mexico City's markets and supermarkets and can wind up in my salad.Much of Mexico City's raw sewage, however, never even leaves the city. During the dry season, excrement in the open-air sewers dries up and goes airborne, returning to the city with the first rainfall or as brown snowflakes. Due to all the leaky or burst pipes, aguas negras constantly escape from the sewage system and leech down into the earth beneath the city. This underground sea of sludge, however, especially during rainy season, has a way of surging up to the surface, flooding homes throughout the city and provoking health disasters (during the 2011 \"great black flood\", 60,000 inhabitants in a single neighborhood had their homes inundated by dark rivers).Official figures state that more than one-third of all the water that now flows through Mexico City's water system leaks out of the underground pipes at a rate of 12,000 litres per second, a total loss of over 1bn litres a year. Given that the aguas negras are much more corrosive, who knows what amount of faeces leaks out of its pipes and filters down into water basin or into the pipes that provide drinking water.WC Fields, the great comedian and unrepentant alcoholic, was once claimed to have said that he never drank water because fish copulate in it. In Mexico City, it's not the fish you have to worry about. Unlike tap water in major European and American cities, there is incredible biodiversity in a single drop of Mexico City tap water. The city ranks number one in the world when it comes to gastrointestinal infections (about 90% of adults in the city are infected with Helicobacter pylori) and its drinking water has been shown to be an ideal vehicle for the transmission of salmonella, dysentery and a host of other common diseases.One recent study by researchers at the Universidad Nacional Aut\u00f3noma de M\u00e9xico analysed 100 samples of tap water in Mexico City and found 84 microorganisms of nine different species, all of which are usually present in human and animal waste. One bacteria, helicobacter pylori, associated with ulcers and gastric cancer, was found in all samples, while E coli, which causes diarrhoea and urinary tract infections, was also well represented. Viruses, including the Legionella virus of hepatitis A and rotavirus, which can lead to liver and respiratory disease, also showed up in the tap water tested.As the water used for public swimming pools and parks is treated water (that is, recycled sewage), the quantity of microorganisms is much higher than in tap water. Although international health standards recommend keeping the limit under one parasite egg for every litre of treated sewage water, in Mexico the acceptable limit is five.Although few humans drink treated sewage water, most pets do (my cat seems to prefer toilet to tap water), and thus almost all are infected with parasites (and often pass them along to their owners). For instance, one gramme of dog faeces can contain up to 15,000 Cryptosporid eggs. Besides infecting humans, dogs and cats, the Cryptosporid parasite, one of the newer parasites on the scene, infects fish, birds, rats, deer, snakes, sheep, horses and pigs, and studies have found that about half of all cows raised for their milk are infested with Cryptosporid. Outbreaks of this parasite in Mexico City occur from contaminated water, contagion in hospitals and childcare centres, contact with infected animals or animal products, and from people who engage in oral or anal sex.When humans get sick from an infectious illness, related health problems increase, especially heart disease. Secondary, chronic illnesses (meningitis, respiratory diseases, arthritis, birth defects, reproductive problems, cancer, hepatitis, and liver, kidney and heart problems) are often a legacy of gastrointestinal infections. Helicobacter bacteria can cause gastritis or colitis, which can in turn lead to ulcers and cancer, Salmonella can leave people with arthritis and colitis (as happened to me), while E coli can lead to kidney failure and hemorrhages. Some bacterial infections lead to thyroid immune dysfunction or neuronal paralysis, while viral infections have been shown to be involved in the onset of diabetes.In addition to health problems associated with parasites in developing countries, Mexico City suffers many of the same problems as industrialised nations, including the contamination of the air, ground, food and water by toxic chemicals. Of the 4m tonnes of toxic waste generated in Mexico City each year, more than 95% is dumped directly into the city's sewer system. The chemical and petrochemical industries within the city generate 2.5m tonnes of hazardous waste, with only 15% treated in any way and the rest drained directly into the water supply. The most dangerous chemicals found in Mexico City water are nitrates, toxic metals, organic solvents, agricultural pesticides, herbicides and radioactive chemicals. Some of these chemicals can provoke acute and chronic toxicity while others can have harmful effects on human genes that lead to mutations and cancer. Floating within the city's water supply are also endocrine disruptor compounds, such as certain insecticides, hydrocarbons, polyaromatics, as well as pharmaceuticals and steroids that can disrupt the normal activity of human hormones, and can affect several inner organs and even reproductive organs (causing lower sperm count or fecundity). These aggressive chemicals commonly found in tap water aren't eliminated by saturated carbon or ozone filters or by boiling and thus are often present in tap water in buildings such as mine and even in the water distributed in plastic jugs.In Mexico City, water is no longer innocuous but has instead become a tricky, potentially lethal substance. No one in Mexico City has ever drowned in a glass of water, but just by drinking water in the city many a life has been cut short.Like all gringos, when I first arrived in Mexico City I was warned about drinking the water. Nonetheless, I regularly drank aguas de frutas in markets and on the streets and ate fruit ices made from water. Apart from several bouts of weird bowel movements, nothing really bad happened to me.After getting salmonella and a subsequent outbreak of chronic, ulcerative colitis, however, water, the substance most present in my body and crucial for my survival, began to make me very nervous, fearing that even brushing my teeth, gargling or singing in the shower could do me in.In the 1990s, following a cholera outbreak that killed more than 500 people, the Mexico City government increased the chlorine content in tap water as a safety measure. Besides leading to health problems (such as genetic mutations) that occur from consuming chlorine or as a result of the reaction between chlorine and faeces in the water pipes, the resulting unpleasant smell (much like swimming pool water) and taste made most people shy away from tap water.Although water is a naturally occurring substance, most water drunk in Mexico City is now purchased and consumed from a plastic bottle. Mexico ranks second in the world in per capita consumption of bottled water, now the single most profitable product ever sold. In Mexico, bottled water is a multimillion dollar business, outselling soft drinks by 20%. Although multinational giants dominate the bottled water market, there are hundreds of local bottling firms, most of which are not licensed or regulated in any way, that compete for their market share.Even though it costs thousands of times more than tap water, there is no assurance that the quality of water inside a plastic bottle is any better. Many brands claim to use electrolysis as a purification process, yet their bottled water is often merely filtered city tap water, with the toxic and parasitic ingredients intact. This is a common practice around the world, and not just among the illegal bottlers.The quality of ice tends to be even worse, as the ice industry is even less supervised and regulated than the water industry. Besides the thousands of legal ice manufacturers, there are up to 6,000 unlicensed and unregulated companies in Mexico that make ice. Industrial ice, which represents 60% of all ice produced, is usually just frozen tap water.Freezing does not kill parasites in water, but even if the water used is pure, the large blocks of industrial ice transported around the city in trucks, on customised bicycle pushcarts or dragged along the sidewalk by giant metal tongs pick up parasites on the way to the consumer. Although these blocks of ice are not made for human consumption, they are often chipped by ice picks and sold as flavored ices or used to chill drinks and food.Due to pressure from the World Bank and other international institutions, water first began to be privatised in the 1980s with the sale of dams, the private control of the public water supply and the large-scale marketing of bottled water. In Mexico, water is auctioned off wholesale to the highest global bidder and multinational companies now lease or buy the land in which a water source is located and pay only a nominal fee to obtain unlimited access. Once they legally own the rights to water sources in Mexico, some multinational companies go to such extremes as to prohibit locals from collecting rainfall, claiming that this is their private property.If, one day, the leaks in the water pipes were fixed and the city's water system repaired, if instead of dumping rain and river water out of the city it were collected to be used as drinking water, if people and corporations didn't dump their waste directly into rivers and lakes, the city might once again, as in the days of the Aztecs, have a naturally replenishing, self-sustaining, truly inexpensive supply of clean drinking water. As a result, many consumers within the city would save a substantial portion of their income, the government would save millions by not having to subsidise its supply and the ground water would be replenished.With the huge profits being made from the privatisation of water in Mexico, however, this doesn't seem likely. Meanwhile, toxic substances and parasites transported around the city by different water sources continue to accumulate within my inner organs, paving the way for liver disease or cancer caused by dirty city water.Kurt Hollander is a writer and photographer who has lived in Mexico City since 1989. This article is an adapted excerpt from his book, Several Ways To Die In Mexico City (Feral House)", "tags": ["Cities", "Water", "Access to water", "Sanitation", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City: water torture on a grand and ludicrous scale"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-20T14:22:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Even by the standards of a country wracked by armed struggle against drug cartels, the arrival of the leader of the world\u2019s last superpower is cause for heightened security.As Barack Obama swept into the Mexican industrial city of Toluca on Wednesday in his 10-ton armoured limo, an estimated 5,000 police were stationed on every street corner for miles around.Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto waited nervously in the foyer of the state governor\u2019s palace, hoping foreign praise for his economic reforms can help win over a sceptical domestic audience and put security fears aside.Back home in Washington, it is Barack Obama who is increasingly dismissed as a lame duck president: unable to persuade Congress to back even modest domestic reform. But, abroad, a US president still travels with the trappings of imperial power and an expectation that he has answers to difficult global problems.Yet the North American leaders summit that brought so much of Toluca\u2019s historic centre to a halt this week has proven to be a object lesson in the limits of US presidential power, both at home and abroad.The two issues at the top of minds in Mexico and Canada \u2013 immigration reform and the Keystone oil pipeline \u2013 were both firmly off the agenda: victims for now of congressional intransigence and a White House terrified of making it worse by losing November\u2019s midterm elections.The official purpose of the summit \u2013 deepening economic relations between the three North American neighbours and Asia \u2013 was similarly hamstrung by opposition to trade liberalisation among Democrats in Washington, who are refusing to give Obama authority to negotiate.Instead the summit looks likely to agree only a smattering of small bore reforms on trade and immigration: oiling the wheels of commerce with \u201ctrusted traveller status\u201d and red tape reductions for businessmen, rather than tackling the bigger social and environmental questions on everyone\u2019s lips.But even these agreements have been overshadowed in Toluca by the latest in a string of foreign crises to which the White House has no answers.Within minutes of Obama\u2019s arrival at the North American summit, he was forced to address events thousands of miles away in Kiev, where a brutal government crackdown on pro-western protestors has exposed the relative impotence of their champions in Washington and Brussels.Among US officials travelling with Obama, Russian support for the Ukrainian government repression has provoked comparisons with a similar stalemate in Syria, where the White House openly admits its strategy for aiding rebel groups is fading fast in the face of fresh government aggression.And when he flies back to Washington on Thursday morning, Obama faces another dilemma over what to do about Afghanistan\u2019s continued refusal to sign an agreement providing for a continued US security presence after its troop withdrawal later this year.The White House is expected to decide within days whether to give formal instructions to the Pentagon to prepare for an eventuality where no US forces are able to stay on.Although such scenario-planning has been going on for some time behind the scenes, a formal request before a Nato meeting in Brussels next week will expose Obama to fresh accusations that the US is being forced to cut and run from its 11-year mission to stabilise Afghanistan.White House strategists believe a war-weary US public will understand its reluctance to force the issue but it raises the prospect of no longer being able to counter terrorist groups in Afghanistan at a time when a similar withdrawal from Iraq has left insurgents back in control of the hard-fought-over city of Falluja.The crises in Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iraq are all much further from the US border than the smaller security worries of Mexico, but the combined sense of powerlessness is a stark reminder of the limits of US power.For now, the primary goal of US foreign policy seems instead to be one of expectation management. \u201cWe just can\u2019t solve everyone else\u2019s problems anymore,\u201d said one senior White House official privately.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Mexico", "Obama administration", "US political financing", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Stephen Harper", "Canada", "Democrats", "US immigration", "Ukraine"], "title": "Obama's trip to Mexico summit overshadowed by foreign policy crises"},{"date": "2014-02-12T18:04:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A new law in the northern Mexican state of Sonora bans parents from registering names for their children defined by the authorities as \"derogatory, pejorative, discriminatory or lacking in meaning\".The civil registry is distributing a list of 61 such names to its local offices around the state that has been primarily drawn up from a revision of records of names registered in the past. These range from Burger King and Usnavy, to the Spanish words for scrotum and traffic, as well as famous names such as Hitler and Harry Potter.The director of the civil registry, Cristina Ram\u00edrez, said: \"The objective of the list is to protect children from being bullied because of their name. We know that bullying can seriously affect a child's personality and the development of social skills, and we want to do what we can from our area of responsibility.\"The use of odd names for children in Mexico has a long tradition, sometimes rooted in parents failing to understand the meaning of their choice. The Sonora list includes Anivdelarev, an abbreviation of the Spanish equivalent of \"anniversary of the revolution\" that is often printed on calendars and is sometimes mistaken by parents as the name of a saint associated with that date.The list also includes names that would be unremarkable, such as Hermione and James Bond, were they not deemed to have uncomfortable connotations for children. Facebook and Twitter made the blacklist for preventative reasons, despite the fact that no such registrations have so far occurred in Mexico.Civil registries across the country began seeking to dissuade parents from giving their children names believed to make them vulnerable to mockery in 2009 but, Ram\u00edrez said, experience has shown this is not enough. She said the Sonora list would be revised every few months with a view to adding new names as they arose. \"Some people are saying were are attacking the liberty of parents. We think these names attack the superior interests of the child,\" she said.Burger KingRobocopTerminatorHitlerLady DiEmailVirgen (Virgin)Escroto (Scrotum)HermioneBatmanUsnavy (US Navy)MichelineTr\u00e1nsito (Traffic)Ces\u00e1rea (Cesarean)", "tags": ["Mexico", "Baby names", "Law", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: parents in Sonora prevented from giving children odd names"},{"date": "2014-02-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Water in Mexico City comes out of the tap in a variety of colours (yellow, rusty or earthy tints), flavours (sulphuric, chlorinated or metallic) and textures (muddy or gritty). Water that doesn't smell, taste or look funky, however, is actually more dangerous, for it can sucker people into believing that it's drinkable. In general, all those who have other options don't drink the tap water.The quality of water supplied to buildings here has consistently been ranked at the bottom of any list of world cities. In addition, rusty pipes, mould and old water tanks made from asbestos (prohibited since the 1970s but still used in lower-income buildings) can add harmful substances to the water. Over time, poor quality water can corrode the pipes and eventually cause them to burst.The water I need to replenish my bodily fluids and to keep myself clean is pumped in daily through an underground pipe that empties into a huge cistern buried underneath the patio. An electric pump located in the patio lifts the water up from the cistern and into the large plastic water tank located on the roof, which in turn channels water back down into the bathroom, shower and kitchen.In Mexico City, water is not free and every two months I must pay for the water I use. My apartment produces its own hot water with a gas-powered water heater located on my terrace, and the gas must be bought from a private company that sends a truck each month to fill up a stationary tank on the roof with liquified gas.The lack of free, publicly supplied quality drinking water generates great business opportunities. To have water to drink, I buy large plastic jugs of water from bicycles equipped with a platform in front that service the neighborhood. Although each jug is relatively inexpensive, paying for water to drink is an added expense that adds up over the year.It is not only drinking water that people must purchase. While those living in higher-income neighborhoods get cheap, government-subsidised tap water, the poorest parts of the population have no plumbing and receive no water at all in their homes. Those who live beyond the reach of the city's water pipes must buy water from trucks (called pipas) that distribute water out of a large hose at an even higher cost. For those who have no access to hot water in their homes, or those who lack indoor plumbing, there exists banos publicos. These public baths, which are actually private businesses, offer individual and communal showers for a modest fee, Turkish baths and saunas (soapy massages offered by teenage boys cost extra).Public toilets also represent a booming private business niche these days, especially in the most visited tourist sites of the city, where for a small fee you receive access to urinals or toilets with toilet paper handed to you when you enter (some WCs even operate like the Metro, with ticket windows and turnstiles). Being that most of these WCs and some of the banos publicos are not licensed, chances are they don't even pay for the large quantity of water used.To get access to needed water, whether it is in the shower, toilet or in a glass, you must pay for it. Yet even if people in the city are willing to pay for their water, soon there might not even be enough to go around.Mexico City uses more water each day than any other city in the world. With its own water sources overexploited, an increasingly large part of its water must be brought in from outside the Mexico City valley.So when I turn on the tap in my flat, the liquid that flows into my sink now mostly comes from distant bodies of water. Given that Mexico City is a mile-high mountain valley, bringing water up and into the city requires some pretty heavy duty machinery. Beginning in 1951, the Lerma river, located in the Toluca valley about 40 miles (70km) from the city, was the first outside water system to be tapped for use by residents of Mexico City.The Lerma waterworks located in Chapultepec Park, equipped with pumps and pipes that connected the city to this distant water source, was an incredible engineering feat, acclaimed by the federal government (even though dozens of workers were killed in the process) and graced by the world's first underwater mural \u2013 Water, The Origin of Life, by Diego Rivera. For decades, the Lerma contributed up to 15% of Mexico City's water. Over the last few decades, however, it has largely been sucked dry. What's left of this once-great waterway is forcefed 170,000 tonnes of toxic slime from the factories, industrial parks and irregular cities located along the banks of the river.As the Mexico City population has grown exponentially, other water sources have had to be tapped to meet the increasing demand. And as its pipes suck up water from further and further away, its water costs have increased exponentially. The Cutzamala river, twice as far away as the Lerma, now supplies up to one-third of Mexico City's water needs. The fact that local communities are being deprived of their own water sources in order to service the capital is a cause of discontent.The Mazahua Indians who have lived around the Cutzamala for centuries now lack access to their own river water, and violent protests have resulted. In addition, as water sources tend to be interconnected, by overexploiting the river to supply drinking water to Mexico City residents, the Chapala lake in the very distant state of Jalisco is drying up.Lack of rainfall and higher temperatures lead to lower levels in the main water sources outside the city (dams in Cutzmala have recently been as low as 30% of their capacity), and the quality of water pumped in from the bottom of these dams is poor. In extreme cases, such as the widespread death of fish due to increased temperatures, these water sources can be poisoned. Although Mexico City as a whole depends on Cutzmala for only 30% of its water, some areas, such as the Santa Fe neighborhood in the south of the city, depend completely on water from this source and suffer droughts when its water levels sink.Pumping more and more water up and into Mexico City requires more and more electricity. To meet this increased demand, more and more dams have been built on the country's rivers. These dams monopolise the local use of the water and often force whole towns to move from their homeland, in turn leading to a flood of migrants into Mexico City. Many of the millions of urban land invaders in Mexico City over the past few decades are farmers who fled rural areas impoverished from an inadequate access to water.The new, haphazard cities these forced immigrants have created creep up and cover the mountains surrounding the city, destroying the trees and forests that normally replenish oxygen and protect the soil from becoming unusable dirt and dust. The lack of trees in turn puts these areas at risk of flooding and mudslides that claim human lives each year. In addition, the new cities populated with millions of inhabitants that have sprung up around the periphery of Mexico City over the past couple of decades have put an added strain on the city's water supply.Water has long ceased to be a free, readily available natural resource. Paying for a natural substance like water seems unnatural, which is perhaps why a good percentage of people and companies in Mexico City don't pay their water bills. If the city government should decide one day to end the subsidies and make customers pay the real cost of the poor quality liquid that comes out of their taps, blood would flow instead of water.The demand for water in Mexico City doubles every 20 years, twice as fast as the population growth. For each square metre of new urban construction, 50 gallons of recoverable rainfall are lost each year, while for each acre of land occupied by humans the water that could be destined for more than 3,000 families is lost. With the relentless urbanisation of every part of the Mexico City valley, water is becoming less and less a renewable resource and more and more a scarce commodity.Although the excrement that I and millions of others dump each day into toilets throughout Mexico City takes an amazing voyage beneath the city streets, through 6,000 miles of pipes, 68 pump stations and across almost 100 miles of canals, tunnels, dikes and artificial lakes, it has an uncanny knack of finding its way back to me.The disposal of human sewage (known as aguas negras) has always been a major problem. Since the Spanish colony was first established here, canals and rivers have been used as dumping grounds for human faeces, with thousands of prisoners and indigenous workers forced to dredge the constantly clogged waterways. The fresh water lakes that irrigated the city's crops and provided drinking water also served as dumping grounds for humans, and this contaminated water (so toxic it was said to burn duck feathers) spread its stench and disease throughout the city. To deal with this situation, three huge, costly sewage works (the Western Interceptor in 1789, the Great Canal in 1900 and the Central Source in 1975) were built to funnel the aguas negras out of the city. As a result, a good chunk of the city's human sewage now rides rivers all the way out to the Gulf of Mexico or the Pacific Ocean. Most, however, remains much closer to home.In 1971, the federal government selected the Mezquital valley in the state of Hidalgo, about 50 miles north of Mexico City, as the ideal destination for the majority of the capital's massive amount of human waste. In fact, though, towns in the region had already been receiving faecal matter from the capital ever since the first sewage pipe funnelled excrement outside of Mexico City in 1608. As the land in the Mezquital valley is arid and lacks its own water supply, raw sewage from Mexico City is used to irrigate almost 40,000 acres of cropland. The sewage sent to the area receives absolutely no treatment, even the most basic one of separating solids from liquids, and thus the valley, watered by the greatest concentration of aguas negras in all of Latin America, is commonly referred to as the world's largest outhouse.Human sewage might help float the local economy but it does so at a price. In return for being able to use sewage as a source of water for crops, locals suffer the stench that emanates from the miasma, and hordes of flies, rats, and other vermin invade the towns in search of sustenance. Local farmers are prone to several acute and chronic health problems, especially skin and intestinal diseases caused by all sorts of especially nasty parasites, but they are not the only people infected. The vegetables grown in the valley (along with all the microorganisms residing within) are transported daily to Mexico City's markets and supermarkets and can wind up in my salad.Much of Mexico City's raw sewage, however, never even leaves the city. During the dry season, excrement in the open-air sewers dries up and goes airborne, returning to the city with the first rainfall or as brown snowflakes. Due to all the leaky or burst pipes, aguas negras constantly escape from the sewage system and leech down into the earth beneath the city. This underground sea of sludge, however, especially during rainy season, has a way of surging up to the surface, flooding homes throughout the city and provoking health disasters (during the 2011 \"great black flood\", 60,000 inhabitants in a single neighborhood had their homes inundated by dark rivers).Official figures state that more than one-third of all the water that now flows through Mexico City's water system leaks out of the underground pipes at a rate of 12,000 litres per second, a total loss of over 1bn litres a year. Given that the aguas negras are much more corrosive, who knows what amount of faeces leaks out of its pipes and filters down into water basin or into the pipes that provide drinking water.WC Fields, the great comedian and unrepentant alcoholic, was once claimed to have said that he never drank water because fish copulate in it. In Mexico City, it's not the fish you have to worry about. Unlike tap water in major European and American cities, there is incredible biodiversity in a single drop of Mexico City tap water. The city ranks number one in the world when it comes to gastrointestinal infections (about 90% of adults in the city are infected with Helicobacter pylori) and its drinking water has been shown to be an ideal vehicle for the transmission of salmonella, dysentery and a host of other common diseases.One recent study by researchers at the Universidad Nacional Aut\u00f3noma de M\u00e9xico analysed 100 samples of tap water in Mexico City and found 84 microorganisms of nine different species, all of which are usually present in human and animal waste. One bacteria, helicobacter pylori, associated with ulcers and gastric cancer, was found in all samples, while E coli, which causes diarrhoea and urinary tract infections, was also well represented. Viruses, including the Legionella virus of hepatitis A and rotavirus, which can lead to liver and respiratory disease, also showed up in the tap water tested.As the water used for public swimming pools and parks is treated water (that is, recycled sewage), the quantity of microorganisms is much higher than in tap water. Although international health standards recommend keeping the limit under one parasite egg for every litre of treated sewage water, in Mexico the acceptable limit is five.Although few humans drink treated sewage water, most pets do (my cat seems to prefer toilet to tap water), and thus almost all are infected with parasites (and often pass them along to their owners). For instance, one gramme of dog faeces can contain up to 15,000 Cryptosporid eggs. Besides infecting humans, dogs and cats, the Cryptosporid parasite, one of the newer parasites on the scene, infects fish, birds, rats, deer, snakes, sheep, horses and pigs, and studies have found that about half of all cows raised for their milk are infested with Cryptosporid. Outbreaks of this parasite in Mexico City occur from contaminated water, contagion in hospitals and childcare centres, contact with infected animals or animal products, and from people who engage in oral or anal sex.When humans get sick from an infectious illness, related health problems increase, especially heart disease. Secondary, chronic illnesses (meningitis, respiratory diseases, arthritis, birth defects, reproductive problems, cancer, hepatitis, and liver, kidney and heart problems) are often a legacy of gastrointestinal infections. Helicobacter bacteria can cause gastritis or colitis, which can in turn lead to ulcers and cancer, Salmonella can leave people with arthritis and colitis (as happened to me), while E coli can lead to kidney failure and hemorrhages. Some bacterial infections lead to thyroid immune dysfunction or neuronal paralysis, while viral infections have been shown to be involved in the onset of diabetes.In addition to health problems associated with parasites in developing countries, Mexico City suffers many of the same problems as industrialised nations, including the contamination of the air, ground, food and water by toxic chemicals. Of the 4m tonnes of toxic waste generated in Mexico City each year, more than 95% is dumped directly into the city's sewer system. The chemical and petrochemical industries within the city generate 2.5m tonnes of hazardous waste, with only 15% treated in any way and the rest drained directly into the water supply. The most dangerous chemicals found in Mexico City water are nitrates, toxic metals, organic solvents, agricultural pesticides, herbicides and radioactive chemicals. Some of these chemicals can provoke acute and chronic toxicity while others can have harmful effects on human genes that lead to mutations and cancer. Floating within the city's water supply are also endocrine disruptor compounds, such as certain insecticides, hydrocarbons, polyaromatics, as well as pharmaceuticals and steroids that can disrupt the normal activity of human hormones, and can affect several inner organs and even reproductive organs (causing lower sperm count or fecundity). These aggressive chemicals commonly found in tap water aren't eliminated by saturated carbon or ozone filters or by boiling and thus are often present in tap water in buildings such as mine and even in the water distributed in plastic jugs.In Mexico City, water is no longer innocuous but has instead become a tricky, potentially lethal substance. No one in Mexico City has ever drowned in a glass of water, but just by drinking water in the city many a life has been cut short.Like all gringos, when I first arrived in Mexico City I was warned about drinking the water. Nonetheless, I regularly drank aguas de frutas in markets and on the streets and ate fruit ices made from water. Apart from several bouts of weird bowel movements, nothing really bad happened to me.After getting salmonella and a subsequent outbreak of chronic, ulcerative colitis, however, water, the substance most present in my body and crucial for my survival, began to make me very nervous, fearing that even brushing my teeth, gargling or singing in the shower could do me in.In the 1990s, following a cholera outbreak that killed more than 500 people, the Mexico City government increased the chlorine content in tap water as a safety measure. Besides leading to health problems (such as genetic mutations) that occur from consuming chlorine or as a result of the reaction between chlorine and faeces in the water pipes, the resulting unpleasant smell (much like swimming pool water) and taste made most people shy away from tap water.Although water is a naturally occurring substance, most water drunk in Mexico City is now purchased and consumed from a plastic bottle. Mexico ranks second in the world in per capita consumption of bottled water, now the single most profitable product ever sold. In Mexico, bottled water is a multimillion dollar business, outselling soft drinks by 20%. Although multinational giants dominate the bottled water market, there are hundreds of local bottling firms, most of which are not licensed or regulated in any way, that compete for their market share.Even though it costs thousands of times more than tap water, there is no assurance that the quality of water inside a plastic bottle is any better. Many brands claim to use electrolysis as a purification process, yet their bottled water is often merely filtered city tap water, with the toxic and parasitic ingredients intact. This is a common practice around the world, and not just among the illegal bottlers.The quality of ice tends to be even worse, as the ice industry is even less supervised and regulated than the water industry. Besides the thousands of legal ice manufacturers, there are up to 6,000 unlicensed and unregulated companies in Mexico that make ice. Industrial ice, which represents 60% of all ice produced, is usually just frozen tap water.Freezing does not kill parasites in water, but even if the water used is pure, the large blocks of industrial ice transported around the city in trucks, on customised bicycle pushcarts or dragged along the sidewalk by giant metal tongs pick up parasites on the way to the consumer. Although these blocks of ice are not made for human consumption, they are often chipped by ice picks and sold as flavored ices or used to chill drinks and food.Due to pressure from the World Bank and other international institutions, water first began to be privatised in the 1980s with the sale of dams, the private control of the public water supply and the large-scale marketing of bottled water. In Mexico, water is auctioned off wholesale to the highest global bidder and multinational companies now lease or buy the land in which a water source is located and pay only a nominal fee to obtain unlimited access. Once they legally own the rights to water sources in Mexico, some multinational companies go to such extremes as to prohibit locals from collecting rainfall, claiming that this is their private property.If, one day, the leaks in the water pipes were fixed and the city's water system repaired, if instead of dumping rain and river water out of the city it were collected to be used as drinking water, if people and corporations didn't dump their waste directly into rivers and lakes, the city might once again, as in the days of the Aztecs, have a naturally replenishing, self-sustaining, truly inexpensive supply of clean drinking water. As a result, many consumers within the city would save a substantial portion of their income, the government would save millions by not having to subsidise its supply and the ground water would be replenished.With the huge profits being made from the privatisation of water in Mexico, however, this doesn't seem likely. Meanwhile, toxic substances and parasites transported around the city by different water sources continue to accumulate within my inner organs, paving the way for liver disease or cancer caused by dirty city water.Kurt Hollander is a writer and photographer who has lived in Mexico City since 1989. This article is an adapted excerpt from his book, Several Ways To Die In Mexico City (Feral House)", "tags": ["Cities", "Water", "Access to water", "Sanitation", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City: water torture on a grand and ludicrous scale"},{"date": "2014-02-04T15:06:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Which countries have laws preventing violence against women? Which legislate for gender equality? And which countries allow abortion? To launch our new section on the Global development site, looking at women's rights and gender equality, we've taken World Bank and UN data to offer a snapshot of women's rights around the world. Women's hard-won rights are under pressure from reactionary policies. Working in partnership with two organisations \u2013 Mama Cash and Awid \u2013 we want our new section to offer a safe forum for debate and for sharing ideas, a place to that amplifies the voices of women's rights advocates.Ghana struggling to translate oil money into development gainsSexual slavery in Mexico \u2013 a pimp tells his storyTata Nano safety under scrutiny after dire crash test resultsFemale genital mutilation affects a fifth of young girls in sub-Saharan AfricaMove over quinoa, Ethiopia's teff poised to be next big super grainAnna Turley and Zohra Moosa: Why progress in women's rights has been compromisedMark Tran: Needs of least developed countries in danger of being sidelinedClaire Melamed: Development data: how accurate are the figures?Tanya Barron: Empowering girls is about rights, not just economicsAlex Renton: Get a taste for teff, the Ethiopian superfood\u2022 Video: Leprosy in Brazil - uncovering a hidden disease\u2022 In pictures: Sierra Leone - law and order meets traditional justice\u2022 Video: Tata Nano falls short of global crash test standardsWhy does violence against women occur? Have you been involved in a campaign to fight it? Share your stories with Guardian Witness and help us build a global pictureThis week the Guardian will launch a campaign to end female genital mutilation.We report from the Philippines, three months after typhoon Haiyan.The next instalment of our world library series will focus on books featuring Iran.We will report from Ivory Coast on the impact of its mining industry.On our feature on Ethiopian teff, wigley wrote:Saule Ospanova: Kazakhstan: Green economy of the future?Poverty matters will return in two weeks with another roundup of the latest news and comment. In the meantime, keep up to date on the Global development website. Follow @gdndevelopment and the team \u2013 @MaeveShearlaw, @ClaireProvost, @LizFordGuardian and @MarkTran \u2013 on Twitter, and join Guardian Global development on Facebook.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Women's rights worldwide, Ghana's oil, sexual slavery in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-02-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "In 2006, following publication of the National Health and Nutrition Survey, newspaper headlines were damning: \"Mexico: nation of obese\" or \"Mexico: world's fattest country.\"The bad press zeroed in on children and adolescents. In 2012, close to 35% of those between 5 and 19 were classified overweight or obese, which not only presented a public health problem, but a public funding crisis as well. Estimates indicate that obesity costs the Mexican government more than 5bn dollars each year, and forecasts indicate that by 2017, this amount will exceed 11bn.Newspaper headlines on child obesity might be more positive in the near future thanks to recent public policy decisions made by the Mexican government and legislators, such as the approval of a 10% tax on flavored drinks with added sugar and another 8% tax on high calorie foods. Another reason for optimism is the 2013 education reform, which established the obligation to provide nutritional meals to students, prohibit the sale and consumption of unhealthy foods in schools, and encourage nutrition education and physical activity.Additionally, the government recently launched the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity and Diabetes, which is underpinned by public health, medical attention, fiscal policy and health regulations, particularly in relation to information on the nutritional content of foods on labels and advertising.This last aspect is vitally important. The existing self-regulating codes for food and drink advertising, which currently have 34 member companies, including large multinationals, is supervised by an advertising ethics council run by the private sector, opening the door to conflicts of interest. The code is already considered rather lenient.The strategy's goal is to limit unrestricted advertising that invites consumption of non-nutritional foods and drinks during children's television programming times, but so far, the necessary legal reforms have not been undertaken, nor are the respective oversight mechanisms and sanctions in place. These are urgently needed if children are to be protected during a stage in their lives where they are particularly vulnerable to such influences.UNICEF Mexico works with government, business, academics, lawmakers and social actors to put children at the heart of a comprehensive strategy that addresses obesity as a multi-factor phenomenon. We recognizethat preventing obesity in children is an effective way of avoiding harmful effects to their immediate healthwhich could lead to disability and premature death in adulthood.Relatedly, UNICEF actively promotes breastfeeding \u2013for its benefits to both mother and child, but also as a means of tackling child and adult obesity. We also focus on social and nutrition programmes for children who show signs of chronic malnutrition which can lead to obesity later on, as well as timely, efficient and effective public investment to make the right to adequate nutrition a reality for all Measures such as these will go a long way in creating favourable headlines and a more positive outlook for Mexican children and will help address the impacts of marketing and advertising to children.Isabel Crowley is representative for UNICEF Mexico Copy on this page is provided by UNICEF, supporter of the children: the next business agenda hub", "tags": ["Partner zone Unicef"], "title": "Mexico combats 'world's fattest country' label"},{"date": "2014-01-04T13:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was 20 years ago that the North American Free Trade Agreement between the US, Canada, and Mexico was implemented. In Washington, the date coincided with an outbreak of the bacteria cryptosporidium in the city's water supply, with residents having to boil their water before drinking it. The joke in town was, \"See what happens, NAFTA takes effect and you can't drink the water here.\"Our neglected infrastructure aside, it is easy to see that NAFTA was a bad deal for most Americans. The promised trade surpluses with Mexico turned out to be deficits, some hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, and there was downward pressure on US wages \u2013 which was, after all, the purpose of the agreement. This was not like the European Union's (pre-Eurozone) economic integration, which allocated hundreds of billions of dollars of development aid to the poorer countries of Europe so as to pull their living standards up toward the average. The idea was to push US wages downward, toward Mexico's, and to create new rights for corporations within the trade area: these lucky multinational enterprises could now sue governments directly before a corporate-friendly international tribunal, unaccountable to any national judicial system, for regulations (eg environmental) that infringed upon their profit-making potential. But what about Mexico? Didn't Mexico at least benefit from the agreement? Well if we look at the past 20 years, it's not a pretty picture. The most basic measure of economic progress, especially for a developing country like Mexico, is the growth of income (or GDP) per person. Out of 20 Latin American countries (South and Central America plus Mexico), Mexico ranks 18, with growth of less than 1% annually since 1994. It is, of course, possible to argue that Mexico would have done even worse without NAFTA, but then the question would be, why?From 1960-80 Mexico's GDP per capita nearly doubled. This amounted to huge increases in living standards for the vast majority of Mexicans. If the country had continued to grow at this rate, it would have European living standards today. This is what happened in South Korea, for example. But Mexico, like the rest of the region, began a long period of neoliberal policy changes that, beginning with its handling of the early 1980s debt crisis, got rid of industrial and development policies, gave a bigger role to de-regulated international trade and investment, and prioritized tighter fiscal and monetary policies (sometimes even in recessions). These policies put an end to the prior period of growth and development. The region as a whole grew just 6% per capita from 1980-2000; and Mexico grew by 16% \u2013 a far cry from the 99% of the previous 20 years. For Mexico, NAFTA helped to consolidate the neo-liberal, anti-development economic policies that had already been implemented in the prior decade, enshrining them in an international treaty. It also tied Mexico even further to the US economy, which was especially unlucky in the two decades that followed: the Fed's interest rate increases in 1994, the US stock market bust (2000-2002) and recession (2001), and especially, the housing bubble collapse and Great Recession of 2008-9 had a bigger impact on Mexico than almost anywhere else in the region.Since 2000, the Latin American region as a whole has increased its growth rate to about 1.9% annually per capita \u2013 not like the pre-1980 era, but a serious improvement over the prior two decades when it was just 0.3%. As a result of this growth rebound, and also the anti-poverty policies implemented by the left governments that were elected in most of South America over the past 15 years, the poverty rate in the region has fallen considerably. It declined from 43.9% in 2002 to 27.9% in 2013, after two decades of no progress whatsoever.But Mexico hasn't joined in this long-awaited rebound: its growth has remained below 1%, less than half the regional average, since 2000. And not surprisingly, Mexico's national poverty rate was 52.3% in 2012, basically the same as it was in 1994 (52.4%). Without economic growth, it is difficult to reduce poverty in a developing country. The statistics would probably look even worse if not for the migration that took place during this period. Millions of Mexicans were displaced from farming, for example, after being forced into competition with subsidized and high-productivity agribusiness in the United States, thanks to NAFTA's rules.It's tough to imagine Mexico doing worse without NAFTA. Perhaps this is part of the reason why Washington's proposed \"Free Trade Area of the Americas\" was roundly rejected by the region in 2005 and the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership is running into trouble. Interestingly, when economists who have promoted NAFTA from the beginning are called upon to defend the agreement, the best that they can offer is that it increased trade. But trade is not, to most humans, an end in itself. And neither are the blatantly mis-named \"free trade agreements\".", "tags": ["Mexico", "US news", "Trade and development", "US economy", "Economic policy", "Business"], "title": "NAFTA: 20 years of regret for Mexico | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2014-02-19T14:46:52Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama begins a North American summit in Mexico on Wednesday with a gesture of defiance toward allies in Congress who are hampering his ability to negotiate controversial trade liberalisation agreements.In the latest in a series of so-called executive actions promised in his state of the union address, the US president will sign new measures to speed up imports and exports for businesses by reducing bureaucratic barriers.Though more limited than the sweeping free trade agreement with China that Obama plans to discuss later in the day with Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto and Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper, the White House claims that streamlining trade rules will help businesses further integrate their supply chains and boost jobs.Their summit in the Mexican industrial city of Toluca comes on the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) which has led to an explosion in cross-border manufacturing to the point where the components of an average car cross the US/Mexico border eight times before final assembly.But attempts to extend Nafta to a broader Trans Pacific Partnership with Asian economies have divided Democrats in Washington who fear its impact on manufacturing jobs, leaving Obama without the authority of Congress to negotiate final details of the deal.Instead, the White House is doing what it can to boost trade with executive orders, adapting a strategy originally designed to bypass Republicans in Congress into territory where he has been blocked by Democratic allies too.\u201cIn his state of the union address, President Obama set an ambitious agenda to make 2014 a year of action: using his pen and his phone to take steps that expand opportunity for America\u2019s middle class \u2013 including helping small American businesses compete in a global economy,\u201d said the White House in a statement.\u201cToday, aboard Air Force One, the president will sign a new executive order on streamlining the export/import process for America\u2019s businesses \u2026 [cutting] processing and approval times from days to minutes for small businesses.\u201dProponents of further trade liberalisation argue that the experience of Nafta has shown that businesses on both sides of the border benefits from lower barriers, but critics say it has destroyed manufacturing jobs in the US and fear further damage if trade with China is similarly relaxed.\u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s any place on the place of the earth where a free trade agreement has developed the integrated supply of production chains that Nafta has,\u201d said Arturo Sarukhan, a former Mexican ambassador to the US.\u201cWhen members on Capitol Hill talk about buy America or export American, they\u2019re losing one very powerful point which is that we\u2019re no longer exporting Mexican, US or Canadian products, we\u2019re exporting North American products. Out of every dollar for example that Mexico exports about 40 cents are US content.\u201dBut Obama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto are also expected on Wednesday to discuss ways of updating Nafta to address concerns that it is too one-sided in favour of corporate interests , according to Josh Meltzer, a trade expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.\u201cThe fact that [the Toluca summit] is 20 years after Nafta is going to be sort of a touchstone and an opportunity to revisit what that trade deal has meant and what could be done going forward,\u201d he said.\u201cThe Trans Pacific Partnership really is the opportunity to renegotiate Nafta in the sense of not actually having to open the agreement. Some of the controversy that always surrounded Nafta has continued and now we see it reemerging in the TPP context.\u201dObama and Pe\u00f1a Nieto will meet for a bilateral meeting on Wednesday afternoon before a session including prime minister Harper and a speech to business leaders.Further trade announcements are expected at a press conference on Wednesday evening but the White House said that the executive order, signed enroute to Toluca, was an important first step.\u201cToday, businesses must submit information to dozens of government agencies, often on paper forms, sometimes waiting on process for days to move goods across the border,\u201d said a fact sheet provided by officials.\u201cThis new electronic system will speed up the shipment of American-made goods overseas, eliminate often duplicative and burdensome paperwork, and make our government more efficient.\u201d", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Mexico", "Barack Obama", "US politics", "US news", "Obama administration", "Canada", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "US economy", "Stephen Harper", "US Congress"], "title": "Obama begins Mexico summit with orders lowering trade barriers"},{"date": "2014-02-20T19:39:19Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Deep in the heart of the Tepito \u2013 the traditional home of Mexico City's black market \u2013 Juan's two mobile phones buzz constantly as he gets closes his deal. He takes the calls with precise and efficient directions, but a certain twitchiness breaks through his clean cut and calm exterior.\"Sure, you make money in this business,\" says the marijuana dealer who started out a year ago selling grams on street corners but is now buying kilos direct from suppliers. \"But it is a very stressful job.\"That job might be heading for a big transformation after leftwing legislators tabled measures to relax regulations on marijuana possession and sale in the capital, as well as proposals for federal reforms that could increase permitted quantities and encourage other states to follow suit.The initiatives, proposed by the leftwing Party of the Democratic Revolution \u2013 which governs in the capital and represents the third force in the federal congress \u2013 are the latest example of a region-wide rethink of the prohibition approach to the war on drugs. In December, Uruguay's parliament approved a bill to legalise and regulate the sale and production of marijuana, while in the US Washington and Colorado states recently legalised the sale of cannabis under licence.While comparatively cautious on paper, the Mexican version brings the debate to a country battered by extreme violence unleashed by the government's attempts to take the war to the drug cartels.\"Seventy thousand dead, 26,000 disappeared, and an incalculable number of internally displaced are more than sufficient reason to look for an alternative model,\" federal congressman Fernando Belaunzar\u00e1n told reporters this week.Current federal legislation allows people to carry up to 5g of marijuana (about four joints) without legal consequences. In practice those caught with even these amounts are only released after being booked by police, which carries with it a serious risk of criminalisation and extortion by corrupt officers.If approved, the new rules in the capital would drastically reduce the police's role and, most significantly, pave the way for regulated and supervised marijuana dispensaries. The capital's reputation for being relatively progressive, having already legalised abortion and gay marriage, suggests the local legislation has a good chance of getting on the books. The initiative before the federal congress proposes raising the limit to 30g, opens the possibility for defining marijuana as medicinal, and gives states more freedom on how to apply these rules.\"These are concrete, well defined, moderate and plausible proposals to start the kind of serious discussion that has been absent during all these years of war mongering,\" says Alejandro Madrazo, an academic who helped draw up the initiatives. \"If we are able to move consumers into tolerated spaces then we can expect to start draining the black market.\"He plays down claims others make about the bills' potential to curb violence by stressing that the capital has been relatively free of the kind of horrors common elsewhere. Even so, the local drug market has been blamed for some horrific crimes, including the abduction of 13 young people in May last year from an after-hours bar in one of the main business districts, a few blocks from police headquarters. The authorities say the abduction was carried out in revenge for the murder of a local dealer.\"I think making marijuana legal is a good idea,\" says tourism student Rodrigo Mart\u00ednez, who adds he would prefer to buy the marijuana he smokes at parties from a regulated dealer rather than on the streets of his own crime-filled neighbourhood in the far south. \"Sometimes you feel pretty vulnerable when you buy, and if you get caught by the police you have to pay a bribe.\"With the debate still in its early stages, a poll of Mexico City residents published in the newspaper El Universal suggests such support is rare. Only 16% approved of raising the amount of permitted possession to 30g, though more than half liked the idea of regulated dispensaries.The capital's archdiocese has voiced the most vehement opposition to the initiatives so far with an editorial titled \"Stoned City\" in its weekly publication From the Faith. \"Drugs should not be combatted with drugs,\" the text stated. \"They are promoting an addicted and sick society.\"Back in Tepito, Juan runs through the range of products he buys - from hydroponic marijuana from the northern state of Sinaloa at about 1,000 pounds a kilo to rough and ready weed from the southern mountains at less than 50 pounds. He sells them all, he says, at a considerable profit.\"I would like a permit, but I don't think I would qualify,\" he muses, before his phone buzzes again and he rushes off the clinch the deal.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Cannabis", "Drugs", "Society"], "title": "Mexico City legislators move to relax cannabis laws"},{"date": "2014-02-20T14:22:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Even by the standards of a country wracked by armed struggle against drug cartels, the arrival of the leader of the world\u2019s last superpower is cause for heightened security.As Barack Obama swept into the Mexican industrial city of Toluca on Wednesday in his 10-ton armoured limo, an estimated 5,000 police were stationed on every street corner for miles around.Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto waited nervously in the foyer of the state governor\u2019s palace, hoping foreign praise for his economic reforms can help win over a sceptical domestic audience and put security fears aside.Back home in Washington, it is Barack Obama who is increasingly dismissed as a lame duck president: unable to persuade Congress to back even modest domestic reform. But, abroad, a US president still travels with the trappings of imperial power and an expectation that he has answers to difficult global problems.Yet the North American leaders summit that brought so much of Toluca\u2019s historic centre to a halt this week has proven to be a object lesson in the limits of US presidential power, both at home and abroad.The two issues at the top of minds in Mexico and Canada \u2013 immigration reform and the Keystone oil pipeline \u2013 were both firmly off the agenda: victims for now of congressional intransigence and a White House terrified of making it worse by losing November\u2019s midterm elections.The official purpose of the summit \u2013 deepening economic relations between the three North American neighbours and Asia \u2013 was similarly hamstrung by opposition to trade liberalisation among Democrats in Washington, who are refusing to give Obama authority to negotiate.Instead the summit looks likely to agree only a smattering of small bore reforms on trade and immigration: oiling the wheels of commerce with \u201ctrusted traveller status\u201d and red tape reductions for businessmen, rather than tackling the bigger social and environmental questions on everyone\u2019s lips.But even these agreements have been overshadowed in Toluca by the latest in a string of foreign crises to which the White House has no answers.Within minutes of Obama\u2019s arrival at the North American summit, he was forced to address events thousands of miles away in Kiev, where a brutal government crackdown on pro-western protestors has exposed the relative impotence of their champions in Washington and Brussels.Among US officials travelling with Obama, Russian support for the Ukrainian government repression has provoked comparisons with a similar stalemate in Syria, where the White House openly admits its strategy for aiding rebel groups is fading fast in the face of fresh government aggression.And when he flies back to Washington on Thursday morning, Obama faces another dilemma over what to do about Afghanistan\u2019s continued refusal to sign an agreement providing for a continued US security presence after its troop withdrawal later this year.The White House is expected to decide within days whether to give formal instructions to the Pentagon to prepare for an eventuality where no US forces are able to stay on.Although such scenario-planning has been going on for some time behind the scenes, a formal request before a Nato meeting in Brussels next week will expose Obama to fresh accusations that the US is being forced to cut and run from its 11-year mission to stabilise Afghanistan.White House strategists believe a war-weary US public will understand its reluctance to force the issue but it raises the prospect of no longer being able to counter terrorist groups in Afghanistan at a time when a similar withdrawal from Iraq has left insurgents back in control of the hard-fought-over city of Falluja.The crises in Syria, Ukraine, Afghanistan and Iraq are all much further from the US border than the smaller security worries of Mexico, but the combined sense of powerlessness is a stark reminder of the limits of US power.For now, the primary goal of US foreign policy seems instead to be one of expectation management. \u201cWe just can\u2019t solve everyone else\u2019s problems anymore,\u201d said one senior White House official privately.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Mexico", "Obama administration", "US political financing", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Stephen Harper", "Canada", "Democrats", "US immigration", "Ukraine"], "title": "Obama's trip to Mexico summit overshadowed by foreign policy crises"},{"date": "2014-02-12T18:04:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A new law in the northern Mexican state of Sonora bans parents from registering names for their children defined by the authorities as \"derogatory, pejorative, discriminatory or lacking in meaning\".The civil registry is distributing a list of 61 such names to its local offices around the state that has been primarily drawn up from a revision of records of names registered in the past. These range from Burger King and Usnavy, to the Spanish words for scrotum and traffic, as well as famous names such as Hitler and Harry Potter.The director of the civil registry, Cristina Ram\u00edrez, said: \"The objective of the list is to protect children from being bullied because of their name. We know that bullying can seriously affect a child's personality and the development of social skills, and we want to do what we can from our area of responsibility.\"The use of odd names for children in Mexico has a long tradition, sometimes rooted in parents failing to understand the meaning of their choice. The Sonora list includes Anivdelarev, an abbreviation of the Spanish equivalent of \"anniversary of the revolution\" that is often printed on calendars and is sometimes mistaken by parents as the name of a saint associated with that date.The list also includes names that would be unremarkable, such as Hermione and James Bond, were they not deemed to have uncomfortable connotations for children. Facebook and Twitter made the blacklist for preventative reasons, despite the fact that no such registrations have so far occurred in Mexico.Civil registries across the country began seeking to dissuade parents from giving their children names believed to make them vulnerable to mockery in 2009 but, Ram\u00edrez said, experience has shown this is not enough. She said the Sonora list would be revised every few months with a view to adding new names as they arose. \"Some people are saying were are attacking the liberty of parents. We think these names attack the superior interests of the child,\" she said.Burger KingRobocopTerminatorHitlerLady DiEmailVirgen (Virgin)Escroto (Scrotum)HermioneBatmanUsnavy (US Navy)MichelineTr\u00e1nsito (Traffic)Ces\u00e1rea (Cesarean)", "tags": ["Mexico", "Baby names", "Law", "World news"], "title": "Mexico: parents in Sonora prevented from giving children odd names"},{"date": "2014-02-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Water in Mexico City comes out of the tap in a variety of colours (yellow, rusty or earthy tints), flavours (sulphuric, chlorinated or metallic) and textures (muddy or gritty). Water that doesn't smell, taste or look funky, however, is actually more dangerous, for it can sucker people into believing that it's drinkable. In general, all those who have other options don't drink the tap water.The quality of water supplied to buildings here has consistently been ranked at the bottom of any list of world cities. In addition, rusty pipes, mould and old water tanks made from asbestos (prohibited since the 1970s but still used in lower-income buildings) can add harmful substances to the water. Over time, poor quality water can corrode the pipes and eventually cause them to burst.The water I need to replenish my bodily fluids and to keep myself clean is pumped in daily through an underground pipe that empties into a huge cistern buried underneath the patio. An electric pump located in the patio lifts the water up from the cistern and into the large plastic water tank located on the roof, which in turn channels water back down into the bathroom, shower and kitchen.In Mexico City, water is not free and every two months I must pay for the water I use. My apartment produces its own hot water with a gas-powered water heater located on my terrace, and the gas must be bought from a private company that sends a truck each month to fill up a stationary tank on the roof with liquified gas.The lack of free, publicly supplied quality drinking water generates great business opportunities. To have water to drink, I buy large plastic jugs of water from bicycles equipped with a platform in front that service the neighborhood. Although each jug is relatively inexpensive, paying for water to drink is an added expense that adds up over the year.It is not only drinking water that people must purchase. While those living in higher-income neighborhoods get cheap, government-subsidised tap water, the poorest parts of the population have no plumbing and receive no water at all in their homes. Those who live beyond the reach of the city's water pipes must buy water from trucks (called pipas) that distribute water out of a large hose at an even higher cost. For those who have no access to hot water in their homes, or those who lack indoor plumbing, there exists banos publicos. These public baths, which are actually private businesses, offer individual and communal showers for a modest fee, Turkish baths and saunas (soapy massages offered by teenage boys cost extra).Public toilets also represent a booming private business niche these days, especially in the most visited tourist sites of the city, where for a small fee you receive access to urinals or toilets with toilet paper handed to you when you enter (some WCs even operate like the Metro, with ticket windows and turnstiles). Being that most of these WCs and some of the banos publicos are not licensed, chances are they don't even pay for the large quantity of water used.To get access to needed water, whether it is in the shower, toilet or in a glass, you must pay for it. Yet even if people in the city are willing to pay for their water, soon there might not even be enough to go around.Mexico City uses more water each day than any other city in the world. With its own water sources overexploited, an increasingly large part of its water must be brought in from outside the Mexico City valley.So when I turn on the tap in my flat, the liquid that flows into my sink now mostly comes from distant bodies of water. Given that Mexico City is a mile-high mountain valley, bringing water up and into the city requires some pretty heavy duty machinery. Beginning in 1951, the Lerma river, located in the Toluca valley about 40 miles (70km) from the city, was the first outside water system to be tapped for use by residents of Mexico City.The Lerma waterworks located in Chapultepec Park, equipped with pumps and pipes that connected the city to this distant water source, was an incredible engineering feat, acclaimed by the federal government (even though dozens of workers were killed in the process) and graced by the world's first underwater mural \u2013 Water, The Origin of Life, by Diego Rivera. For decades, the Lerma contributed up to 15% of Mexico City's water. Over the last few decades, however, it has largely been sucked dry. What's left of this once-great waterway is forcefed 170,000 tonnes of toxic slime from the factories, industrial parks and irregular cities located along the banks of the river.As the Mexico City population has grown exponentially, other water sources have had to be tapped to meet the increasing demand. And as its pipes suck up water from further and further away, its water costs have increased exponentially. The Cutzamala river, twice as far away as the Lerma, now supplies up to one-third of Mexico City's water needs. The fact that local communities are being deprived of their own water sources in order to service the capital is a cause of discontent.The Mazahua Indians who have lived around the Cutzamala for centuries now lack access to their own river water, and violent protests have resulted. In addition, as water sources tend to be interconnected, by overexploiting the river to supply drinking water to Mexico City residents, the Chapala lake in the very distant state of Jalisco is drying up.Lack of rainfall and higher temperatures lead to lower levels in the main water sources outside the city (dams in Cutzmala have recently been as low as 30% of their capacity), and the quality of water pumped in from the bottom of these dams is poor. In extreme cases, such as the widespread death of fish due to increased temperatures, these water sources can be poisoned. Although Mexico City as a whole depends on Cutzmala for only 30% of its water, some areas, such as the Santa Fe neighborhood in the south of the city, depend completely on water from this source and suffer droughts when its water levels sink.Pumping more and more water up and into Mexico City requires more and more electricity. To meet this increased demand, more and more dams have been built on the country's rivers. These dams monopolise the local use of the water and often force whole towns to move from their homeland, in turn leading to a flood of migrants into Mexico City. Many of the millions of urban land invaders in Mexico City over the past few decades are farmers who fled rural areas impoverished from an inadequate access to water.The new, haphazard cities these forced immigrants have created creep up and cover the mountains surrounding the city, destroying the trees and forests that normally replenish oxygen and protect the soil from becoming unusable dirt and dust. The lack of trees in turn puts these areas at risk of flooding and mudslides that claim human lives each year. In addition, the new cities populated with millions of inhabitants that have sprung up around the periphery of Mexico City over the past couple of decades have put an added strain on the city's water supply.Water has long ceased to be a free, readily available natural resource. Paying for a natural substance like water seems unnatural, which is perhaps why a good percentage of people and companies in Mexico City don't pay their water bills. If the city government should decide one day to end the subsidies and make customers pay the real cost of the poor quality liquid that comes out of their taps, blood would flow instead of water.The demand for water in Mexico City doubles every 20 years, twice as fast as the population growth. For each square metre of new urban construction, 50 gallons of recoverable rainfall are lost each year, while for each acre of land occupied by humans the water that could be destined for more than 3,000 families is lost. With the relentless urbanisation of every part of the Mexico City valley, water is becoming less and less a renewable resource and more and more a scarce commodity.Although the excrement that I and millions of others dump each day into toilets throughout Mexico City takes an amazing voyage beneath the city streets, through 6,000 miles of pipes, 68 pump stations and across almost 100 miles of canals, tunnels, dikes and artificial lakes, it has an uncanny knack of finding its way back to me.The disposal of human sewage (known as aguas negras) has always been a major problem. Since the Spanish colony was first established here, canals and rivers have been used as dumping grounds for human faeces, with thousands of prisoners and indigenous workers forced to dredge the constantly clogged waterways. The fresh water lakes that irrigated the city's crops and provided drinking water also served as dumping grounds for humans, and this contaminated water (so toxic it was said to burn duck feathers) spread its stench and disease throughout the city. To deal with this situation, three huge, costly sewage works (the Western Interceptor in 1789, the Great Canal in 1900 and the Central Source in 1975) were built to funnel the aguas negras out of the city. As a result, a good chunk of the city's human sewage now rides rivers all the way out to the Gulf of Mexico or the Pacific Ocean. Most, however, remains much closer to home.In 1971, the federal government selected the Mezquital valley in the state of Hidalgo, about 50 miles north of Mexico City, as the ideal destination for the majority of the capital's massive amount of human waste. In fact, though, towns in the region had already been receiving faecal matter from the capital ever since the first sewage pipe funnelled excrement outside of Mexico City in 1608. As the land in the Mezquital valley is arid and lacks its own water supply, raw sewage from Mexico City is used to irrigate almost 40,000 acres of cropland. The sewage sent to the area receives absolutely no treatment, even the most basic one of separating solids from liquids, and thus the valley, watered by the greatest concentration of aguas negras in all of Latin America, is commonly referred to as the world's largest outhouse.Human sewage might help float the local economy but it does so at a price. In return for being able to use sewage as a source of water for crops, locals suffer the stench that emanates from the miasma, and hordes of flies, rats, and other vermin invade the towns in search of sustenance. Local farmers are prone to several acute and chronic health problems, especially skin and intestinal diseases caused by all sorts of especially nasty parasites, but they are not the only people infected. The vegetables grown in the valley (along with all the microorganisms residing within) are transported daily to Mexico City's markets and supermarkets and can wind up in my salad.Much of Mexico City's raw sewage, however, never even leaves the city. During the dry season, excrement in the open-air sewers dries up and goes airborne, returning to the city with the first rainfall or as brown snowflakes. Due to all the leaky or burst pipes, aguas negras constantly escape from the sewage system and leech down into the earth beneath the city. This underground sea of sludge, however, especially during rainy season, has a way of surging up to the surface, flooding homes throughout the city and provoking health disasters (during the 2011 \"great black flood\", 60,000 inhabitants in a single neighborhood had their homes inundated by dark rivers).Official figures state that more than one-third of all the water that now flows through Mexico City's water system leaks out of the underground pipes at a rate of 12,000 litres per second, a total loss of over 1bn litres a year. Given that the aguas negras are much more corrosive, who knows what amount of faeces leaks out of its pipes and filters down into water basin or into the pipes that provide drinking water.WC Fields, the great comedian and unrepentant alcoholic, was once claimed to have said that he never drank water because fish copulate in it. In Mexico City, it's not the fish you have to worry about. Unlike tap water in major European and American cities, there is incredible biodiversity in a single drop of Mexico City tap water. The city ranks number one in the world when it comes to gastrointestinal infections (about 90% of adults in the city are infected with Helicobacter pylori) and its drinking water has been shown to be an ideal vehicle for the transmission of salmonella, dysentery and a host of other common diseases.One recent study by researchers at the Universidad Nacional Aut\u00f3noma de M\u00e9xico analysed 100 samples of tap water in Mexico City and found 84 microorganisms of nine different species, all of which are usually present in human and animal waste. One bacteria, helicobacter pylori, associated with ulcers and gastric cancer, was found in all samples, while E coli, which causes diarrhoea and urinary tract infections, was also well represented. Viruses, including the Legionella virus of hepatitis A and rotavirus, which can lead to liver and respiratory disease, also showed up in the tap water tested.As the water used for public swimming pools and parks is treated water (that is, recycled sewage), the quantity of microorganisms is much higher than in tap water. Although international health standards recommend keeping the limit under one parasite egg for every litre of treated sewage water, in Mexico the acceptable limit is five.Although few humans drink treated sewage water, most pets do (my cat seems to prefer toilet to tap water), and thus almost all are infected with parasites (and often pass them along to their owners). For instance, one gramme of dog faeces can contain up to 15,000 Cryptosporid eggs. Besides infecting humans, dogs and cats, the Cryptosporid parasite, one of the newer parasites on the scene, infects fish, birds, rats, deer, snakes, sheep, horses and pigs, and studies have found that about half of all cows raised for their milk are infested with Cryptosporid. Outbreaks of this parasite in Mexico City occur from contaminated water, contagion in hospitals and childcare centres, contact with infected animals or animal products, and from people who engage in oral or anal sex.When humans get sick from an infectious illness, related health problems increase, especially heart disease. Secondary, chronic illnesses (meningitis, respiratory diseases, arthritis, birth defects, reproductive problems, cancer, hepatitis, and liver, kidney and heart problems) are often a legacy of gastrointestinal infections. Helicobacter bacteria can cause gastritis or colitis, which can in turn lead to ulcers and cancer, Salmonella can leave people with arthritis and colitis (as happened to me), while E coli can lead to kidney failure and hemorrhages. Some bacterial infections lead to thyroid immune dysfunction or neuronal paralysis, while viral infections have been shown to be involved in the onset of diabetes.In addition to health problems associated with parasites in developing countries, Mexico City suffers many of the same problems as industrialised nations, including the contamination of the air, ground, food and water by toxic chemicals. Of the 4m tonnes of toxic waste generated in Mexico City each year, more than 95% is dumped directly into the city's sewer system. The chemical and petrochemical industries within the city generate 2.5m tonnes of hazardous waste, with only 15% treated in any way and the rest drained directly into the water supply. The most dangerous chemicals found in Mexico City water are nitrates, toxic metals, organic solvents, agricultural pesticides, herbicides and radioactive chemicals. Some of these chemicals can provoke acute and chronic toxicity while others can have harmful effects on human genes that lead to mutations and cancer. Floating within the city's water supply are also endocrine disruptor compounds, such as certain insecticides, hydrocarbons, polyaromatics, as well as pharmaceuticals and steroids that can disrupt the normal activity of human hormones, and can affect several inner organs and even reproductive organs (causing lower sperm count or fecundity). These aggressive chemicals commonly found in tap water aren't eliminated by saturated carbon or ozone filters or by boiling and thus are often present in tap water in buildings such as mine and even in the water distributed in plastic jugs.In Mexico City, water is no longer innocuous but has instead become a tricky, potentially lethal substance. No one in Mexico City has ever drowned in a glass of water, but just by drinking water in the city many a life has been cut short.Like all gringos, when I first arrived in Mexico City I was warned about drinking the water. Nonetheless, I regularly drank aguas de frutas in markets and on the streets and ate fruit ices made from water. Apart from several bouts of weird bowel movements, nothing really bad happened to me.After getting salmonella and a subsequent outbreak of chronic, ulcerative colitis, however, water, the substance most present in my body and crucial for my survival, began to make me very nervous, fearing that even brushing my teeth, gargling or singing in the shower could do me in.In the 1990s, following a cholera outbreak that killed more than 500 people, the Mexico City government increased the chlorine content in tap water as a safety measure. Besides leading to health problems (such as genetic mutations) that occur from consuming chlorine or as a result of the reaction between chlorine and faeces in the water pipes, the resulting unpleasant smell (much like swimming pool water) and taste made most people shy away from tap water.Although water is a naturally occurring substance, most water drunk in Mexico City is now purchased and consumed from a plastic bottle. Mexico ranks second in the world in per capita consumption of bottled water, now the single most profitable product ever sold. In Mexico, bottled water is a multimillion dollar business, outselling soft drinks by 20%. Although multinational giants dominate the bottled water market, there are hundreds of local bottling firms, most of which are not licensed or regulated in any way, that compete for their market share.Even though it costs thousands of times more than tap water, there is no assurance that the quality of water inside a plastic bottle is any better. Many brands claim to use electrolysis as a purification process, yet their bottled water is often merely filtered city tap water, with the toxic and parasitic ingredients intact. This is a common practice around the world, and not just among the illegal bottlers.The quality of ice tends to be even worse, as the ice industry is even less supervised and regulated than the water industry. Besides the thousands of legal ice manufacturers, there are up to 6,000 unlicensed and unregulated companies in Mexico that make ice. Industrial ice, which represents 60% of all ice produced, is usually just frozen tap water.Freezing does not kill parasites in water, but even if the water used is pure, the large blocks of industrial ice transported around the city in trucks, on customised bicycle pushcarts or dragged along the sidewalk by giant metal tongs pick up parasites on the way to the consumer. Although these blocks of ice are not made for human consumption, they are often chipped by ice picks and sold as flavored ices or used to chill drinks and food.Due to pressure from the World Bank and other international institutions, water first began to be privatised in the 1980s with the sale of dams, the private control of the public water supply and the large-scale marketing of bottled water. In Mexico, water is auctioned off wholesale to the highest global bidder and multinational companies now lease or buy the land in which a water source is located and pay only a nominal fee to obtain unlimited access. Once they legally own the rights to water sources in Mexico, some multinational companies go to such extremes as to prohibit locals from collecting rainfall, claiming that this is their private property.If, one day, the leaks in the water pipes were fixed and the city's water system repaired, if instead of dumping rain and river water out of the city it were collected to be used as drinking water, if people and corporations didn't dump their waste directly into rivers and lakes, the city might once again, as in the days of the Aztecs, have a naturally replenishing, self-sustaining, truly inexpensive supply of clean drinking water. As a result, many consumers within the city would save a substantial portion of their income, the government would save millions by not having to subsidise its supply and the ground water would be replenished.With the huge profits being made from the privatisation of water in Mexico, however, this doesn't seem likely. Meanwhile, toxic substances and parasites transported around the city by different water sources continue to accumulate within my inner organs, paving the way for liver disease or cancer caused by dirty city water.Kurt Hollander is a writer and photographer who has lived in Mexico City since 1989. This article is an adapted excerpt from his book, Several Ways To Die In Mexico City (Feral House)", "tags": ["Cities", "Water", "Access to water", "Sanitation", "Mexico"], "title": "Mexico City: water torture on a grand and ludicrous scale"},{"date": "2014-02-04T15:06:14Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Which countries have laws preventing violence against women? Which legislate for gender equality? And which countries allow abortion? To launch our new section on the Global development site, looking at women's rights and gender equality, we've taken World Bank and UN data to offer a snapshot of women's rights around the world. Women's hard-won rights are under pressure from reactionary policies. Working in partnership with two organisations \u2013 Mama Cash and Awid \u2013 we want our new section to offer a safe forum for debate and for sharing ideas, a place to that amplifies the voices of women's rights advocates.Ghana struggling to translate oil money into development gainsSexual slavery in Mexico \u2013 a pimp tells his storyTata Nano safety under scrutiny after dire crash test resultsFemale genital mutilation affects a fifth of young girls in sub-Saharan AfricaMove over quinoa, Ethiopia's teff poised to be next big super grainAnna Turley and Zohra Moosa: Why progress in women's rights has been compromisedMark Tran: Needs of least developed countries in danger of being sidelinedClaire Melamed: Development data: how accurate are the figures?Tanya Barron: Empowering girls is about rights, not just economicsAlex Renton: Get a taste for teff, the Ethiopian superfood\u2022 Video: Leprosy in Brazil - uncovering a hidden disease\u2022 In pictures: Sierra Leone - law and order meets traditional justice\u2022 Video: Tata Nano falls short of global crash test standardsWhy does violence against women occur? Have you been involved in a campaign to fight it? Share your stories with Guardian Witness and help us build a global pictureThis week the Guardian will launch a campaign to end female genital mutilation.We report from the Philippines, three months after typhoon Haiyan.The next instalment of our world library series will focus on books featuring Iran.We will report from Ivory Coast on the impact of its mining industry.On our feature on Ethiopian teff, wigley wrote:Saule Ospanova: Kazakhstan: Green economy of the future?Poverty matters will return in two weeks with another roundup of the latest news and comment. In the meantime, keep up to date on the Global development website. Follow @gdndevelopment and the team \u2013 @MaeveShearlaw, @ClaireProvost, @LizFordGuardian and @MarkTran \u2013 on Twitter, and join Guardian Global development on Facebook.", "tags": ["Global development"], "title": "Women's rights worldwide, Ghana's oil, sexual slavery in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-02-03T13:04:59Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Pedro's life as a sex trafficker began when he offered a sweet to a pretty young domestic servant out on a Sunday stroll in a provincial city in central Mexico. \"Once I got her laughing, I knew I was in with a chance,\" he recalls. \"Then I got the sun, the moon and the stars down from the sky for her.\"A week later he was roasting a pig at the home of her poverty-stricken family to celebrate their non-existent forthcoming nuptials. Within a month she was working an alley in a northern border city to raise money to help him pay off an imaginary debt. \"The merchandise,\" he says, using the jargon of the Mexican sex-trafficking business, \"had been activated.\"After many years of largely ignoring the problem, federal deputies approved a people-trafficking law in 2012 that was supposed to spur a nationwide crackdown. So far, however, only Mexico City has responded with any gusto, ratcheting up the number of raids in the name of rescuing victims and arresting traffickers.\"Sexual exploitation is a modern form of slavery,\" says Juana Camila Bautista, the head of a special prosecutor's office set up last May to focus on the issue. \"We are doing battle against this horror.\"But the new official concern about sex trafficking in the capital has sparked controversy. Some say the raids have left many important traffickers untouched. Instead the authorities have been rounding up prostitutes and accusing them of complicity.\"If they want to criminalise all sex work they should come out and say it,\" says Elvira Madrid of the combative NGO Brigada Callejera (Street Brigade), which works with prostitutes in the capital. \"Trafficking is one thing, sex work is another.\"Another problem is that even well-directed stings in Mexico City rarely dismantle the much broader sex-trafficking networks often generated in other states where the authorities continue to turn a blind eye. It is a problem that some estimate sucks in thousands of women every year.\"At least where I come from, it is seen as a normal job,\" Pedro says of the collection of towns in the central state of Tlaxcala where he grew up, which are famed for producing pimps the way others produce artisans. Pedro, who was detained in a raid on a hotel in the capital in 2009, adds that the influence of pimps in his home state would almost certainly have protected him from facing justice.Tlaxcala pimps dominate sexual slavery in the capital, as well as in several other Mexican cities \u2013 and the odd US one as well, including New York. And, according to Pedro, there are ever more of them. \"When I was a boy, there were a few renowned local families involved,\" he says. \"Now every young man seems to have a brand new car they couldn't have got through any other means.\"Pedro became one of them 15 years ago, after a short stint working in a US factory as an illegal immigrant took the shine off the American dream.To get started, he sought out veterans who had retired and laundered their profits in a string of legal businesses while also keeping their oar in the old trade by initiating younger relatives and eager pupils like Pedro.\"They said it wasn't a game and that there would be lots of problems with the police and the girls, and with other pimps who might want to kill me or who I might have to kill. And they asked me if I was conscious of that,\" he recalls. \"I said yes, but the truth was that I was 19 and not conscious of anything other than that I wanted to make money and this was the only option I had.\"Pedro's pimping godfathers advised him on how to ensnare poor and lonely Mexican women, often from troubled families. They told him to limit his initial \"investment\" when going after potential targets to a week, in order to avoid wasting his time.They also played an active part in his first conquest, the one that started with a sweet. Posing as his uncles, they helped convince the girl's family that Pedro was a hard-working young man with good intentions. Once she was well and truly hooked, they helped him organise a move to the border city of Tijuana, where they ran hotels.Even so, it was up to Pedro to cajole her into prostitution in the name of paying off a debt, while keeping the dream of a wedding and future happiness alive.That was in 2000. When he was arrested nine years later, she was still seeing dozens of clients every day, entirely for his profit. By then, Pedro says, he had entrapped about 30 women in similar ways, and usually had six working for him at the same time \u2013 each earning $300-$400 a day. \"I never had any problem activating my girls,\" he boasts, before giving a lesson in the language of trafficking that labels women as \"furniture\" and \"merchandise\", and talks about new recruits as \"fresh meat for the lions\".He never gave his women any of their earnings, though he insists he sometimes took them to dinner or to the cinema and reserved violence for extreme circumstances such as an escape. \"I knew lots of pimps who drugged and beat their women all the time,\" he says. \"I knew pimps who kept them near starved and kept their children hostage, but that wasn't the school I was taught in.\"This was the nightmare that Veronica lived for years. She met her pimp while working in a brothel just outside Mexico City when she was 15. He approached her as a client, treating her with a kindness she had never known, and promising to take her away to a life of love and security. By the time she discovered that his family owned brothels in the state of Michoac\u00e1n, where she was expected to work, it was too late.\"They are all the same. They talk to you nicely and they treat you well at first because they see the profit in you,\" she says. \"They look over your face and your body and have sex with you to see if you have potential, and then they start with their rap about how pretty you are and little by little you are pulled in. And when you fall, you are stuck.\"Things got even worse for Veronica after a failed escape attempt prompted her pimp to move her to the capital, where she was allowed only an hour's sleep a day between seeing about 40 clients.The pimp's fear that a rival was trying to steal Veronica, or the merest hint of insubordination, prompted vicious beatings. But, Veronica says, what really kept her in line was his family's control of her two children, whom they rarely allowed her to see.Eventually Veronica did escape, with the help of the activists from Brigada Callejera, who also helped her snatch back her daughter in a daring raid on her pimp's family home. \"I tried to save my son but couldn't,\" she says. \"Maybe they will tie him to the business as well. That's the way they do it, the father passing the title to the son.\"Veronica laid low for a while until, penniless and with no education, she returned to prostitution, though at least she was keeping her earnings.A few months ago her trained eye spotted an obvious pimp honing in on her daughter, and the terror came flooding back. \"For the first time I told her everything that had happened to me, to make her understand what she was getting herself into,\" says Veronica, who took her daughter into semi-hiding.Veronica's pimp was not from Tlaxcala, and nor was the man hitting on her daughter. According to Pedro, this shows that while Tlaxcala pimps may abound, they are not particularly territorial. After all, the supply of vulnerable young women in Mexico can seem close to endless. \"This is a free market,\" he says. \"As long as you don't steal another pimp's girls there is no problem.\"Pedro insists he is a reformed character with no intention of returning to the business when he is released from jail in a few years, though his expressions of regret appear to be tinged with nostalgia.\"I am sorry I hurt them. Sorry I broke their dreams and illusions,\" he says at one point. \"It was really easy for me,\" he muses at another, a discreet smile at the memory just visible on his lips.", "tags": ["Global development", "Slavery", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Prostitution", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "Sexual slavery in Mexico \u2013 a pimp tells his story"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-10T15:00:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Naturally, I didn\u2019t find the horse like this. I shot it in Mexico in 2002, having been invited to make a work in response to the late architect Luis Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s house in Mexico City. Before I went along to see the house, I took a virtual tour \u2013 and was struck by a wooden sculpture of a horse, sitting on a plinth on the roof terrace.When I finally got there, the horse was missing. I asked the guide where it was and he looked surprised. Apparently, after Barrag\u00e1n died, the contents of the house were removed so repairs could be made. When everything was brought back, the horse was missing. So the thing I\u00a0most remembered was the thing that was no longer there.A little later, I was in Guadalajara working on\u00a0a\u00a0project for a small,\u00a0artist-run gallery in a skyscraper. When I went up on the roof, I immediately remembered Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s horse. He wasn\u2019t just from Guadalajara, he\u2019d also been friends with the architect who built this skyscraper. But these details weren\u2019t so\u00a0important: the main thing was my feeling of absence, my belief it represented more than presence. I\u00a0decided to get a horse up there.The structure it rests on was tailor-made. It had to support the horse carefully, not so tight that it hurt, but tight enough so it wouldn\u2019t fall off. There was nothing really dramatic about the shoot. The horse\u2019s owner was there, which kept things calm. It took four people to lift the horse, crossing hands under its belly, while somebody else kept the platform steady. It took just 20 seconds. I guess the horse was taken by surprise: by the time it realised\u00a0what was going on, it was already back on the\u00a0ground. We repeated the procedure,\u00a0lifting it up and down several times until I got a picture I\u00a0was\u00a0happy with.I like the tension: the horse looks like it has been rejected, while at the same time it has been handled with care. It is both landing and taking off, which lends the shot an absurd equilibrium. And it seems lighter than it should be, like there\u2019s no gravity. When something is out of its normal context \u2013 this horse should be running about freely, not being pulled upwards \u2013 we question not just what we see, but our whole sense of place. What is it\u00a0that makes us feel grounded? And why do we take it as a given?The whole process, from idea to shoot, took less than 48 hours. This could only have happened in Mexico.Born: Albania, 1974Studied: Ecole Nationale Sup\u00e9rieure des Arts D\u00e9coratifs, ParisInfluences: \u201cAn artist who later became my professor, but who was forbidden to work during the Albanian dictatorship; and Edi Rama, who was an artist and is now Albanian prime minister.\u201dHighs and lows: \u201cThey\u2019re subjective. Something you might perceive as a low point may later seem like a high.\u201dTop tip: \u201cDon\u2019t take too much advice.\u201d\u2022 Anri Sala has been nominated for the Vincent award, showing at The Gemeentemuseum in, The Hague, until 1 February.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Anri Sala\u2019s best shot: a live horse on a plinth in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-10T15:00:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Naturally, I didn\u2019t find the horse like this. I shot it in Mexico in 2002, having been invited to make a work in response to the late architect Luis Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s house in Mexico City. Before I went along to see the house, I took a virtual tour \u2013 and was struck by a wooden sculpture of a horse, sitting on a plinth on the roof terrace.When I finally got there, the horse was missing. I asked the guide where it was and he looked surprised. Apparently, after Barrag\u00e1n died, the contents of the house were removed so repairs could be made. When everything was brought back, the horse was missing. So the thing I\u00a0most remembered was the thing that was no longer there.A little later, I was in Guadalajara working on\u00a0a\u00a0project for a small,\u00a0artist-run gallery in a skyscraper. When I went up on the roof, I immediately remembered Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s horse. He wasn\u2019t just from Guadalajara, he\u2019d also been friends with the architect who built this skyscraper. But these details weren\u2019t so\u00a0important: the main thing was my feeling of absence, my belief it represented more than presence. I\u00a0decided to get a horse up there.The structure it rests on was tailor-made. It had to support the horse carefully, not so tight that it hurt, but tight enough so it wouldn\u2019t fall off. There was nothing really dramatic about the shoot. The horse\u2019s owner was there, which kept things calm. It took four people to lift the horse, crossing hands under its belly, while somebody else kept the platform steady. It took just 20 seconds. I guess the horse was taken by surprise: by the time it realised\u00a0what was going on, it was already back on the\u00a0ground. We repeated the procedure,\u00a0lifting it up and down several times until I got a picture I\u00a0was\u00a0happy with.I like the tension: the horse looks like it has been rejected, while at the same time it has been handled with care. It is both landing and taking off, which lends the shot an absurd equilibrium. And it seems lighter than it should be, like there\u2019s no gravity. When something is out of its normal context \u2013 this horse should be running about freely, not being pulled upwards \u2013 we question not just what we see, but our whole sense of place. What is it\u00a0that makes us feel grounded? And why do we take it as a given?The whole process, from idea to shoot, took less than 48 hours. This could only have happened in Mexico.Born: Albania, 1974Studied: Ecole Nationale Sup\u00e9rieure des Arts D\u00e9coratifs, ParisInfluences: \u201cAn artist who later became my professor, but who was forbidden to work during the Albanian dictatorship; and Edi Rama, who was an artist and is now Albanian prime minister.\u201dHighs and lows: \u201cThey\u2019re subjective. Something you might perceive as a low point may later seem like a high.\u201dTop tip: \u201cDon\u2019t take too much advice.\u201d\u2022 Anri Sala has been nominated for the Vincent award, showing at The Gemeentemuseum in, The Hague, until 1 February.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Anri Sala\u2019s best shot: a live horse on a plinth in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-09T11:30:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Viridiana Martinez was accepted into her dream school a decade ago. It was the worst day of her life. Martinez was an undocumented migrant. With no green card, she was still able to attend an American high school and become an honors student \u2013 a perfect scenario, until she found out that colleges could not accept her without a visa. Getting the acceptance letter from North Carolina State University was, she says, like a \u201cfuneral\u201d.\u201cThe day that that happened, my whole world came tumbling down. I still remember what that was like,\u201d says Martinez, voice shaking. \u201cI still remember what graduation day was like. What was supposed to be this next step, this transition in my life was not a good transition. It wasn\u2019t positive. It was like a funeral.\u201d Shortly after that, Martinez tried to kill herself. She was 17. Martinez is far from alone. In 2010, undocumented Texas teenager Joaquin Luna discovered the Dream Act failed to pass the Senate. A few months later, he put on his best suit and killed himself.Martinez and Luna are among the hundreds of thousands of undocumented youths who have risked their lives and safety to make it into the US. They get the dream \u2013 for a while. They have access to public education and other perks of being an American. But there is a ceiling on their achievement: as high school graduation approaches, reality changes. Colleges in most US states won\u2019t accept them until they are legal. The number of job prospects shrink, and what\u2019s available is low-paid. Depression and suicide often follow. The bitter disappointment that comes with growing up undocumented in the US can be traumatic. Most undocumented migrants don\u2019t have healthcare or counseling resources to deal with their emotions, so they bottle them inside, remaining silent about what\u2019s it like to grow up undocumented in the US. There\u2019s also little hope that things will change. This past Saturday, the White House announced that it would hold-off action on immigration until after the midterm elections. The Obama administration has made other attempts at reform: the Dream Act, which failed, and in 2012 the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca), which would \u201clift the shadow of deportation\u201d from the undocumented youth.There are 775,000 undocumented youngsters under 18 living in the US, according to a recent report from Pew Research Center. Another 850,000 are eligible for Daca. This means they are at least 15 years old, were under 31 in June 2012, when Daca was announced by the White House, arrived in the US before their 16th birthday and have lived here continuously since 2007.Under Daca, these undocumented migrants then qualify for temporary relief from deportation and a two-year work permit which has to be renewed every two years. The estimates for the total potential Daca-eligible community range from 1.2 million to 2.1 million, yet only 673,000 have applied for their initial work permit by June of this year. \u201cDaca is like crumbs. It\u2019s little thing so that you can get ahead, but then you are stuck anyway,\u201d explains Angy Rivera, and immigration activist and advice columnist.Martinez now describes the day she tried to kill herself as a turning point. Instead of going to college, she devoted her time to immigration activism and is a co-founder of North Carolina Dream Team. \u201cStopping deportations, that\u2019s what I do,\u201d she says.One of the deportations that Martinez has attempted to stop was that of Yanelli Hernandez. The attempt failed. Hernandez served nine months in jail for driving under the influence. She was sent to an immigration detention center. In detention, Hernandez, who attempted to kill herself in 2008, tried to do it again.Immigration activists lobbying to prevent her deportation tried to make a case that were she deported, she wouldn\u2019t have access to the level of mental health care available in the US. \u201c[It] would be very sad if she goes to [Mexico] and commits suicide there,\u201d said Jorge Martinez, who filed an emergency stay of removal on her behalf. Hernandez was sent back to Mexico in January 2012.\u201cI haven\u2019t had any contact with her after [her removal],\u201d Martinez told the Guardian. \u201cI was informed that the next day after removal she was robbed in Mexico of the little money she had with her.\u201dRivera, the advice columnist, says that talking about her undocumented status with others in similar situations helped. Rivera came to US as a child in 1994, to \u201cescape a life of violence and poverty in Colombia\u201d.As with Martinez, her defining moment was when she found out that she wasn\u2019t eligible for financial aid. Rivera applied for and was awarded a New York State Youth Leadership Council scholarship, which came with a summer internship. Working there was the first time she saw others talking about their legal status and decided to share her story.\u201cIt was the first time that I had been able to talk to somebody who understood,\u201d she says. \u201cHaving someone to talk to who understands is a big deal.\u201dAlthough undocumented youths can find support in each other, many activists believe that they can do better job of being there for each other.\u201cWe haven\u2019t addressed our own internal issues and mental health and made it priority to be there for each other, because we are all so broken. We all have our own traumas,\u201d says Martinez.For Rivera, that trauma was being sexually assaulted when she was a teenager.It wasn\u2019t like the typical teenage drama, like liking a boy, or trying to figure out who your friends are. I was dealing with being undocumented and what the weight of that was and then also coming to terms with the fact that I had been assaulted. That impacted the way I trusted and communicated with everybody.The assault made her eligible for a \u2018U\u2019 visa, something that she wasn\u2019t aware of until she went to file for Daca. \u2018U\u2019 visas are for crime victims \u201cwho have suffered substantial mental or physical abuse and are willing to help law enforcement authorities investigate or prosecute those crimes\u201d, according to US Citizen and Immigration Services. There are only 10,000 U visas available each year.As President Obama postpones action on immigration until after the November election, activists urge those in the undocumented community to find someone to talk to about their struggles.\u201cLiving in that fear, living in that silence, it\u2019s very lonely,\u201d says Rivera. \u201cAnd you drown. I did. For a long time.\u201d", "tags": ["US personal finance", "US immigration", "Mental health", "Health", "Depression", "Dream Act", "US news"], "title": "Deportation and depression: 'It would be sad if she goes to Mexico and commits suicide there'"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-10T15:00:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Naturally, I didn\u2019t find the horse like this. I shot it in Mexico in 2002, having been invited to make a work in response to the late architect Luis Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s house in Mexico City. Before I went along to see the house, I took a virtual tour \u2013 and was struck by a wooden sculpture of a horse, sitting on a plinth on the roof terrace.When I finally got there, the horse was missing. I asked the guide where it was and he looked surprised. Apparently, after Barrag\u00e1n died, the contents of the house were removed so repairs could be made. When everything was brought back, the horse was missing. So the thing I\u00a0most remembered was the thing that was no longer there.A little later, I was in Guadalajara working on\u00a0a\u00a0project for a small,\u00a0artist-run gallery in a skyscraper. When I went up on the roof, I immediately remembered Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s horse. He wasn\u2019t just from Guadalajara, he\u2019d also been friends with the architect who built this skyscraper. But these details weren\u2019t so\u00a0important: the main thing was my feeling of absence, my belief it represented more than presence. I\u00a0decided to get a horse up there.The structure it rests on was tailor-made. It had to support the horse carefully, not so tight that it hurt, but tight enough so it wouldn\u2019t fall off. There was nothing really dramatic about the shoot. The horse\u2019s owner was there, which kept things calm. It took four people to lift the horse, crossing hands under its belly, while somebody else kept the platform steady. It took just 20 seconds. I guess the horse was taken by surprise: by the time it realised\u00a0what was going on, it was already back on the\u00a0ground. We repeated the procedure,\u00a0lifting it up and down several times until I got a picture I\u00a0was\u00a0happy with.I like the tension: the horse looks like it has been rejected, while at the same time it has been handled with care. It is both landing and taking off, which lends the shot an absurd equilibrium. And it seems lighter than it should be, like there\u2019s no gravity. When something is out of its normal context \u2013 this horse should be running about freely, not being pulled upwards \u2013 we question not just what we see, but our whole sense of place. What is it\u00a0that makes us feel grounded? And why do we take it as a given?The whole process, from idea to shoot, took less than 48 hours. This could only have happened in Mexico.Born: Albania, 1974Studied: Ecole Nationale Sup\u00e9rieure des Arts D\u00e9coratifs, ParisInfluences: \u201cAn artist who later became my professor, but who was forbidden to work during the Albanian dictatorship; and Edi Rama, who was an artist and is now Albanian prime minister.\u201dHighs and lows: \u201cThey\u2019re subjective. Something you might perceive as a low point may later seem like a high.\u201dTop tip: \u201cDon\u2019t take too much advice.\u201d\u2022 Anri Sala has been nominated for the Vincent award, showing at The Gemeentemuseum in, The Hague, until 1 February.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Anri Sala\u2019s best shot: a live horse on a plinth in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-09T11:30:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Viridiana Martinez was accepted into her dream school a decade ago. It was the worst day of her life. Martinez was an undocumented migrant. With no green card, she was still able to attend an American high school and become an honors student \u2013 a perfect scenario, until she found out that colleges could not accept her without a visa. Getting the acceptance letter from North Carolina State University was, she says, like a \u201cfuneral\u201d.\u201cThe day that that happened, my whole world came tumbling down. I still remember what that was like,\u201d says Martinez, voice shaking. \u201cI still remember what graduation day was like. What was supposed to be this next step, this transition in my life was not a good transition. It wasn\u2019t positive. It was like a funeral.\u201d Shortly after that, Martinez tried to kill herself. She was 17. Martinez is far from alone. In 2010, undocumented Texas teenager Joaquin Luna discovered the Dream Act failed to pass the Senate. A few months later, he put on his best suit and killed himself.Martinez and Luna are among the hundreds of thousands of undocumented youths who have risked their lives and safety to make it into the US. They get the dream \u2013 for a while. They have access to public education and other perks of being an American. But there is a ceiling on their achievement: as high school graduation approaches, reality changes. Colleges in most US states won\u2019t accept them until they are legal. The number of job prospects shrink, and what\u2019s available is low-paid. Depression and suicide often follow. The bitter disappointment that comes with growing up undocumented in the US can be traumatic. Most undocumented migrants don\u2019t have healthcare or counseling resources to deal with their emotions, so they bottle them inside, remaining silent about what\u2019s it like to grow up undocumented in the US. There\u2019s also little hope that things will change. This past Saturday, the White House announced that it would hold-off action on immigration until after the midterm elections. The Obama administration has made other attempts at reform: the Dream Act, which failed, and in 2012 the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca), which would \u201clift the shadow of deportation\u201d from the undocumented youth.There are 775,000 undocumented youngsters under 18 living in the US, according to a recent report from Pew Research Center. Another 850,000 are eligible for Daca. This means they are at least 15 years old, were under 31 in June 2012, when Daca was announced by the White House, arrived in the US before their 16th birthday and have lived here continuously since 2007.Under Daca, these undocumented migrants then qualify for temporary relief from deportation and a two-year work permit which has to be renewed every two years. The estimates for the total potential Daca-eligible community range from 1.2 million to 2.1 million, yet only 673,000 have applied for their initial work permit by June of this year. \u201cDaca is like crumbs. It\u2019s little thing so that you can get ahead, but then you are stuck anyway,\u201d explains Angy Rivera, and immigration activist and advice columnist.Martinez now describes the day she tried to kill herself as a turning point. Instead of going to college, she devoted her time to immigration activism and is a co-founder of North Carolina Dream Team. \u201cStopping deportations, that\u2019s what I do,\u201d she says.One of the deportations that Martinez has attempted to stop was that of Yanelli Hernandez. The attempt failed. Hernandez served nine months in jail for driving under the influence. She was sent to an immigration detention center. In detention, Hernandez, who attempted to kill herself in 2008, tried to do it again.Immigration activists lobbying to prevent her deportation tried to make a case that were she deported, she wouldn\u2019t have access to the level of mental health care available in the US. \u201c[It] would be very sad if she goes to [Mexico] and commits suicide there,\u201d said Jorge Martinez, who filed an emergency stay of removal on her behalf. Hernandez was sent back to Mexico in January 2012.\u201cI haven\u2019t had any contact with her after [her removal],\u201d Martinez told the Guardian. \u201cI was informed that the next day after removal she was robbed in Mexico of the little money she had with her.\u201dRivera, the advice columnist, says that talking about her undocumented status with others in similar situations helped. Rivera came to US as a child in 1994, to \u201cescape a life of violence and poverty in Colombia\u201d.As with Martinez, her defining moment was when she found out that she wasn\u2019t eligible for financial aid. Rivera applied for and was awarded a New York State Youth Leadership Council scholarship, which came with a summer internship. Working there was the first time she saw others talking about their legal status and decided to share her story.\u201cIt was the first time that I had been able to talk to somebody who understood,\u201d she says. \u201cHaving someone to talk to who understands is a big deal.\u201dAlthough undocumented youths can find support in each other, many activists believe that they can do better job of being there for each other.\u201cWe haven\u2019t addressed our own internal issues and mental health and made it priority to be there for each other, because we are all so broken. We all have our own traumas,\u201d says Martinez.For Rivera, that trauma was being sexually assaulted when she was a teenager.It wasn\u2019t like the typical teenage drama, like liking a boy, or trying to figure out who your friends are. I was dealing with being undocumented and what the weight of that was and then also coming to terms with the fact that I had been assaulted. That impacted the way I trusted and communicated with everybody.The assault made her eligible for a \u2018U\u2019 visa, something that she wasn\u2019t aware of until she went to file for Daca. \u2018U\u2019 visas are for crime victims \u201cwho have suffered substantial mental or physical abuse and are willing to help law enforcement authorities investigate or prosecute those crimes\u201d, according to US Citizen and Immigration Services. There are only 10,000 U visas available each year.As President Obama postpones action on immigration until after the November election, activists urge those in the undocumented community to find someone to talk to about their struggles.\u201cLiving in that fear, living in that silence, it\u2019s very lonely,\u201d says Rivera. \u201cAnd you drown. I did. For a long time.\u201d", "tags": ["US personal finance", "US immigration", "Mental health", "Health", "Depression", "Dream Act", "US news"], "title": "Deportation and depression: 'It would be sad if she goes to Mexico and commits suicide there'"},{"date": "2014-09-05T16:13:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Afonso Dhlakama, leader of former rebel group Renamoin Mozambique, who came out of hiding to sign a landmark peace treaty with President Armando Guebuza. The treaty marks the end of a two year conflict in the country. Al-Anbar governorate in Iraq, where the World Food Programme has resumed its deliveries for the first time since May. Dalai Lama, who has cancelled a trip to South Africa after officials said his visa application had been denied. Human rights in Mexico, after Amnesty International reports a 600% rise in the number of reported cases of torture and ill-treatment in the past decade. Our quote this week comes from Helen Clark, head of the United Nations Development Programme, speaking at the International Conference for Small Island Developing States in Samoa this week.The stance of small island developing nations is clear \u2013 they are advocates for, and role models of, the transformative changes towards sustainable development which the world needs to make. In response to our article \u2018Development: not for people from different work and ethnic backgrounds?\u2019 one contributor argued:The development sector is professionalising and getting a job in development is something that requires serious knowledge and the ability to add significant value to the projects and communities you\u2019re supposed to be supporting. Getting a job in development is not a right.1 billion people drink water contaminated by faeces, says Unicef and World Health Organisation report. \u00a3600bn is lost by poor countries due to corruption, causing an estimated 3.6 million deaths a year.95,000 children and teenagers - most of them in Latin America and the Caribbean - were murdered in 2012. 1,900 people have died so far from Ebola according to the World health Organisation. One in 10 girls are sexually abused says UN report Hidden in plain sight.Chile has opened its largest ever wind farm. The El Arrayan farm cost \u00a3180m and consists of 50 turbines that are expected to provide 20% of the country\u2019s energy. Indian prime minister Narendra Modi has completed his first 100 days in power after winning a landslide victory in May. Health experts have met in Geneva to discuss fast-tracking experimental drugs for Ebola as the death doll continues to rise in West Africa. Israel has seized over 400 hectares of West Bank Land. Anti-settlement activists claimed it as the largest land grab in 30 years. This week at World Water Week in Stockholm, Unicef India shared insights from their \u2018Poo to the Loo\u2019 campaign against open defecation in the country. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Research", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Sanitation", "Gender", "Ebola", "Renewable energy", "Narendra Modi", "Humanitarian response", "humanitarians"], "title": "World in a week: 600% rise in reports of torture in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-10T15:00:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Naturally, I didn\u2019t find the horse like this. I shot it in Mexico in 2002, having been invited to make a work in response to the late architect Luis Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s house in Mexico City. Before I went along to see the house, I took a virtual tour \u2013 and was struck by a wooden sculpture of a horse, sitting on a plinth on the roof terrace.When I finally got there, the horse was missing. I asked the guide where it was and he looked surprised. Apparently, after Barrag\u00e1n died, the contents of the house were removed so repairs could be made. When everything was brought back, the horse was missing. So the thing I\u00a0most remembered was the thing that was no longer there.A little later, I was in Guadalajara working on\u00a0a\u00a0project for a small,\u00a0artist-run gallery in a skyscraper. When I went up on the roof, I immediately remembered Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s horse. He wasn\u2019t just from Guadalajara, he\u2019d also been friends with the architect who built this skyscraper. But these details weren\u2019t so\u00a0important: the main thing was my feeling of absence, my belief it represented more than presence. I\u00a0decided to get a horse up there.The structure it rests on was tailor-made. It had to support the horse carefully, not so tight that it hurt, but tight enough so it wouldn\u2019t fall off. There was nothing really dramatic about the shoot. The horse\u2019s owner was there, which kept things calm. It took four people to lift the horse, crossing hands under its belly, while somebody else kept the platform steady. It took just 20 seconds. I guess the horse was taken by surprise: by the time it realised\u00a0what was going on, it was already back on the\u00a0ground. We repeated the procedure,\u00a0lifting it up and down several times until I got a picture I\u00a0was\u00a0happy with.I like the tension: the horse looks like it has been rejected, while at the same time it has been handled with care. It is both landing and taking off, which lends the shot an absurd equilibrium. And it seems lighter than it should be, like there\u2019s no gravity. When something is out of its normal context \u2013 this horse should be running about freely, not being pulled upwards \u2013 we question not just what we see, but our whole sense of place. What is it\u00a0that makes us feel grounded? And why do we take it as a given?The whole process, from idea to shoot, took less than 48 hours. This could only have happened in Mexico.Born: Albania, 1974Studied: Ecole Nationale Sup\u00e9rieure des Arts D\u00e9coratifs, ParisInfluences: \u201cAn artist who later became my professor, but who was forbidden to work during the Albanian dictatorship; and Edi Rama, who was an artist and is now Albanian prime minister.\u201dHighs and lows: \u201cThey\u2019re subjective. Something you might perceive as a low point may later seem like a high.\u201dTop tip: \u201cDon\u2019t take too much advice.\u201d\u2022 Anri Sala has been nominated for the Vincent award, showing at The Gemeentemuseum in, The Hague, until 1 February.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Anri Sala\u2019s best shot: a live horse on a plinth in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-09T11:30:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Viridiana Martinez was accepted into her dream school a decade ago. It was the worst day of her life. Martinez was an undocumented migrant. With no green card, she was still able to attend an American high school and become an honors student \u2013 a perfect scenario, until she found out that colleges could not accept her without a visa. Getting the acceptance letter from North Carolina State University was, she says, like a \u201cfuneral\u201d.\u201cThe day that that happened, my whole world came tumbling down. I still remember what that was like,\u201d says Martinez, voice shaking. \u201cI still remember what graduation day was like. What was supposed to be this next step, this transition in my life was not a good transition. It wasn\u2019t positive. It was like a funeral.\u201d Shortly after that, Martinez tried to kill herself. She was 17. Martinez is far from alone. In 2010, undocumented Texas teenager Joaquin Luna discovered the Dream Act failed to pass the Senate. A few months later, he put on his best suit and killed himself.Martinez and Luna are among the hundreds of thousands of undocumented youths who have risked their lives and safety to make it into the US. They get the dream \u2013 for a while. They have access to public education and other perks of being an American. But there is a ceiling on their achievement: as high school graduation approaches, reality changes. Colleges in most US states won\u2019t accept them until they are legal. The number of job prospects shrink, and what\u2019s available is low-paid. Depression and suicide often follow. The bitter disappointment that comes with growing up undocumented in the US can be traumatic. Most undocumented migrants don\u2019t have healthcare or counseling resources to deal with their emotions, so they bottle them inside, remaining silent about what\u2019s it like to grow up undocumented in the US. There\u2019s also little hope that things will change. This past Saturday, the White House announced that it would hold-off action on immigration until after the midterm elections. The Obama administration has made other attempts at reform: the Dream Act, which failed, and in 2012 the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca), which would \u201clift the shadow of deportation\u201d from the undocumented youth.There are 775,000 undocumented youngsters under 18 living in the US, according to a recent report from Pew Research Center. Another 850,000 are eligible for Daca. This means they are at least 15 years old, were under 31 in June 2012, when Daca was announced by the White House, arrived in the US before their 16th birthday and have lived here continuously since 2007.Under Daca, these undocumented migrants then qualify for temporary relief from deportation and a two-year work permit which has to be renewed every two years. The estimates for the total potential Daca-eligible community range from 1.2 million to 2.1 million, yet only 673,000 have applied for their initial work permit by June of this year. \u201cDaca is like crumbs. It\u2019s little thing so that you can get ahead, but then you are stuck anyway,\u201d explains Angy Rivera, and immigration activist and advice columnist.Martinez now describes the day she tried to kill herself as a turning point. Instead of going to college, she devoted her time to immigration activism and is a co-founder of North Carolina Dream Team. \u201cStopping deportations, that\u2019s what I do,\u201d she says.One of the deportations that Martinez has attempted to stop was that of Yanelli Hernandez. The attempt failed. Hernandez served nine months in jail for driving under the influence. She was sent to an immigration detention center. In detention, Hernandez, who attempted to kill herself in 2008, tried to do it again.Immigration activists lobbying to prevent her deportation tried to make a case that were she deported, she wouldn\u2019t have access to the level of mental health care available in the US. \u201c[It] would be very sad if she goes to [Mexico] and commits suicide there,\u201d said Jorge Martinez, who filed an emergency stay of removal on her behalf. Hernandez was sent back to Mexico in January 2012.\u201cI haven\u2019t had any contact with her after [her removal],\u201d Martinez told the Guardian. \u201cI was informed that the next day after removal she was robbed in Mexico of the little money she had with her.\u201dRivera, the advice columnist, says that talking about her undocumented status with others in similar situations helped. Rivera came to US as a child in 1994, to \u201cescape a life of violence and poverty in Colombia\u201d.As with Martinez, her defining moment was when she found out that she wasn\u2019t eligible for financial aid. Rivera applied for and was awarded a New York State Youth Leadership Council scholarship, which came with a summer internship. Working there was the first time she saw others talking about their legal status and decided to share her story.\u201cIt was the first time that I had been able to talk to somebody who understood,\u201d she says. \u201cHaving someone to talk to who understands is a big deal.\u201dAlthough undocumented youths can find support in each other, many activists believe that they can do better job of being there for each other.\u201cWe haven\u2019t addressed our own internal issues and mental health and made it priority to be there for each other, because we are all so broken. We all have our own traumas,\u201d says Martinez.For Rivera, that trauma was being sexually assaulted when she was a teenager.It wasn\u2019t like the typical teenage drama, like liking a boy, or trying to figure out who your friends are. I was dealing with being undocumented and what the weight of that was and then also coming to terms with the fact that I had been assaulted. That impacted the way I trusted and communicated with everybody.The assault made her eligible for a \u2018U\u2019 visa, something that she wasn\u2019t aware of until she went to file for Daca. \u2018U\u2019 visas are for crime victims \u201cwho have suffered substantial mental or physical abuse and are willing to help law enforcement authorities investigate or prosecute those crimes\u201d, according to US Citizen and Immigration Services. There are only 10,000 U visas available each year.As President Obama postpones action on immigration until after the November election, activists urge those in the undocumented community to find someone to talk to about their struggles.\u201cLiving in that fear, living in that silence, it\u2019s very lonely,\u201d says Rivera. \u201cAnd you drown. I did. For a long time.\u201d", "tags": ["US personal finance", "US immigration", "Mental health", "Health", "Depression", "Dream Act", "US news"], "title": "Deportation and depression: 'It would be sad if she goes to Mexico and commits suicide there'"},{"date": "2014-09-05T16:13:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Afonso Dhlakama, leader of former rebel group Renamoin Mozambique, who came out of hiding to sign a landmark peace treaty with President Armando Guebuza. The treaty marks the end of a two year conflict in the country. Al-Anbar governorate in Iraq, where the World Food Programme has resumed its deliveries for the first time since May. Dalai Lama, who has cancelled a trip to South Africa after officials said his visa application had been denied. Human rights in Mexico, after Amnesty International reports a 600% rise in the number of reported cases of torture and ill-treatment in the past decade. Our quote this week comes from Helen Clark, head of the United Nations Development Programme, speaking at the International Conference for Small Island Developing States in Samoa this week.The stance of small island developing nations is clear \u2013 they are advocates for, and role models of, the transformative changes towards sustainable development which the world needs to make. In response to our article \u2018Development: not for people from different work and ethnic backgrounds?\u2019 one contributor argued:The development sector is professionalising and getting a job in development is something that requires serious knowledge and the ability to add significant value to the projects and communities you\u2019re supposed to be supporting. Getting a job in development is not a right.1 billion people drink water contaminated by faeces, says Unicef and World Health Organisation report. \u00a3600bn is lost by poor countries due to corruption, causing an estimated 3.6 million deaths a year.95,000 children and teenagers - most of them in Latin America and the Caribbean - were murdered in 2012. 1,900 people have died so far from Ebola according to the World health Organisation. One in 10 girls are sexually abused says UN report Hidden in plain sight.Chile has opened its largest ever wind farm. The El Arrayan farm cost \u00a3180m and consists of 50 turbines that are expected to provide 20% of the country\u2019s energy. Indian prime minister Narendra Modi has completed his first 100 days in power after winning a landslide victory in May. Health experts have met in Geneva to discuss fast-tracking experimental drugs for Ebola as the death doll continues to rise in West Africa. Israel has seized over 400 hectares of West Bank Land. Anti-settlement activists claimed it as the largest land grab in 30 years. This week at World Water Week in Stockholm, Unicef India shared insights from their \u2018Poo to the Loo\u2019 campaign against open defecation in the country. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Research", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Sanitation", "Gender", "Ebola", "Renewable energy", "Narendra Modi", "Humanitarian response", "humanitarians"], "title": "World in a week: 600% rise in reports of torture in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-26T18:17:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The government of Mexico has announced a plan to modernise the freight railway that runs through the country in an effort to discourage Central American migrants from riding the trains on their way to the US border.The 6,000m peso (\u00a3275m) project includes purchasing 12 satellite-monitored vehicles to run ahead of the trains and relay information about what lies along the track, which is traditionally lined with groups of migrants waiting to board as it trundles by. It could also include replacing large sections of track to increase speed and make jumping on more difficult.The government says the plan is designed to protect the migrants. Hundreds have died or lost limbs in bungled attempts to board the train \u2013 popularly known as the Beast \u2013 or after going to sleep and falling off. Some have been pushed off by criminal gangs who roam the route. Rapes are common.\"The first objective is to prevent migrants from putting themselves at risk by using a cargo train that is not meant for passengers,\" Humberto Mayans, the official in charge of the plan, told reporters.He also promised action to \"combat and eradicate the criminal groups who attack their rights\".Migrant rights activists, however, say the plan will make matters worse. They say faster trains will mean more accidents for those who still try to board, and tighter controls will leave others ever more at the mercy of the organised criminal smuggling networks. These are already notorious for mass kidnappings and massacres.\"It is not that we want people to take the train, but at least it makes them more visible,\" activist Rub\u00e9n Figueroa said last week at the shelter he helps run in southern Mexico. He was talking after a series of raids by immigration authorities along the tracks that preceded the formal announcement of the modernisation plan.The Beast has attracted particular attention recently because of the political backlash in the US around this year's dramatic increase in the number of unaccompanied child migrants from Central America arriving in southern Texas. Many are fleeing the reign of terror exercised by street gangs in Honduras and El Salvador.There are now more checkpoints near Mexico's border with Guatemala, meaning migrants taking busses are more at risk of being extorted by corrupt officials or detained and deported.Even so, a steady stream of Central Americans still arrives every day at the church-run shelters along their traditional routes. Many appear determined to keep going, however many risks and dangers lie ahead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Migration and development", "US immigration", "US news", "Honduras", "Guatemala", "El Salvador"], "title": "Mexico plans boost to the Beast to discourage Central American migrants"},{"date": "2014-09-05T15:41:32Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For decades their windowless exteriors have looked out over major traffic routes roads through big Mexican cities, and their neon signs can always be spotted along the main roads leading into the smallest of towns. But while millions of Mexicans have a hotel de paso or two lodged in their memories, it is not usually for their decor.But now, this long-established custom is going upmarket. The \"love motel\" has always offered privacy and discretion, now it is adding a little luxury to boot.Where once it was rare for rooms to have more than a bed, a TV, and perhaps a mirror, today it is not unusual to find jacuzzis, rotating platforms, poles, swings, and cushioned corners kitted out with handcuffs.\"Before, they weren't exactly horrible, but they weren't nice either,\" says regular client Josimar. \"Now some are really great.\"Josimar is fond of the Pir\u00e1mides del Valle hotel in Mexico City. It now includes a room with a catwalk, and a long, undulating swimming pool which disappears into a water-filled grotto behind a cascade.\"I thought that if making love is so beautiful and fun, how come the spaces for it are so ugly and boring,\" says designer Aurelio Vazquez, who is credited with detonating the boom after he insisted on a free rein when asked to renovate another traditional hotel in the capital.Vazquez recalls the owners' initial scepticism and fear, rooted, he says, in distrust of their clients, who they accused of vandalising the rooms and stealing furniture. But when the first new-look hotel proved an immediate success, the offers to do more came rolling in.Similar hotels are now springing up around the country, assiduously promoted and reviewed on social media to ensure that no new feature goes undissected.The prices are considerably higher than the basic versions that still abound, but with the fanciest rooms costing around \u00a3150 for five hours, it is still less than paying for a whole night in many hotels. Threesomes and more usually involve additional charges.\"This is a design revolution,\" Vazquez says.Hoteles de paso are primarily a Latin American phenomenon which, those involved in the business say, has always been particularly developed in Mexico. It took off in the 1940s, spearheaded by immigrants from Galicia, whose grandchildren still dominate the sector. A new wave of Galicians is now being enticed over, all too happy to flee economic crisis at home. But this is also a very Mexican tradition, thriving in a culture that, while conservative on the surface, accepts sexual peccadilloes, as long as they are not flaunted too openly.\"It is a deeply rooted in our double standards,\" says cultural commentator Guadalupe Loaeza. Double standards, she notes, that are transforming with more liberal attitudes to sex, but not disappearing.Love motels rely on young people who live with their parents, even when they have decent independent incomes, and would never think of having sex in the family home, even with an established partner. The difference is that the luxury versions appeal more to couples from higher up the economic ladder.\"It would be disrespectful to my family,\" says one lawyer. \"I have been with my boyfriend for two years now and I am sure my parents know we have sex; they just don't want to know that they know.\"Gay clients, like Josimar, also rely on love hotels to avoid gossip. While he lives on his own and came out years ago, he says, his partner has not, and is the son of a public figure, into the bargain. \"I need to protect him,\" he says. \"And we feel very comfortable in the nice hotels.\"The Mexico City lifestyle magazine Chilango recently delved into the sex lives of more than 8,000 readers with a survey that included a question about love motels to which only 16% responded that they did not frequent them.Aidee Iribe, who runs a website dedicated to what she calls hoteles kinky, says there is also a growing market among married couples and what she terms \"neo-singles\". In both categories, she says, women are a driving force behind the popularity of luxury love hotels.\"Women are beginning to take a much more active role that recognises the importance of their sex lives,\" she says, \"and women care more about the design.\"And then, of course, there is the old-fashioned clandestine affair, with Mexico's designated Day of the Secretary, on the third wednesday of July, remaining one of the busiest days in the calendar in all classes of love hotels.But they don't appeal to everyone, no matter many new gadgets they boast. One high-level bureaucrat in his 40s said the similarly successful married woman with whom he is having an affair avoids them precisely because they are so popular. There is, after all, always the risk of your car being spotted before the garage door comes down.\"She is nervous of bumping into colleagues,\" he says. \"We go to ordinary hotels.\"", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Sex", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Society", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Love motels go upmarket in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-19T13:30:53Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A travel media conference has decided to drop dolphin experiences from its programme following pressure from travel bloggers and wildlife campaigners.The TBEX 2014 conference, which is due to take place in Cancun, Mexico, in September and is attended by travel bloggers, writers and industry experts, had been criticised for offering attendees the opportunity to go on two tours at the Delphinus Dolphinarium.While TBEX organisers had refused to drop the tours, telling The Guardian they would not be \u201cbullied into cancelling a tour by a small pressure group\u201d, the Cancun tourist board \u2013 who offered the tours to TBEX in the first place \u2013 made the decision to retract them after being contacted directly by responsible travel blog Green Global Travel.In a statement posted on the Green Global Travel site, the Cancun tourist board said they were \u201cdisheartened\u201d that so much attention had be placed on \u201cjust one\u201d of the activities they are offering at the conference.\u201cWe want to move on from this topic so we can focus on the agenda at hand,\u201d said spokesperson Paula Gomez, \u201cwhich is to put on a conference where bloggers and industry professionals can share ideas and best practices and, while they are at it, get a first-hand look at Cancun\u2019s offerings.\u201d\u201cTo do so, we have stopped offering these dolphin experiences as part of any pre- or post-TBEX experience.\u201dWildlife charity Care for the Wild International, which runs the RIGHT-tourism campaign for animal-friendly tourism and has previously spoken out against TBEX\u2019s decision to offer the tours, described the decision as \u201ca start\u201d. \u201cThe messages and morals of this story are unclear,\u201d said Chris Pitt, campaigns manager for the charity. \u201cTBEX felt it was their right to offer the tours, and Cancun have cancelled them because of the adverse publicity. Neither of those policies scream \u2018we\u2019re concerned about the dolphins\u2019. But it\u2019s a start. What this campaign has shown is that keeping dolphins captive for people\u2019s entertainment is no longer something that should be blindly accepted.\u201dThe decision to drop the tours comes after a period of sustained online campaigning and discussion among the travel blogging community. Travel writer Matthew Kepnes launched a petition in July, while also calling on people to boycott the conference. Online forum Outbounding.org was also active in bringing the debate to a wider audience.Mike Huxley, who runs the Bemused Backpacker blog, has also been vocal about getting the tours cancelled. He praised fellow bloggers and writers for raising awareness of the issues surrounding dolphinariums and wildlife tourism.\u201cIt has been a huge catalyst in bringing the organisers of TBEX and other relevant providers to the table and holding them to account,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is my hope that travel bloggers and campaigners can now work alongside the Cancun tourism board and events like TBEX \u2026 and show them and the world that there are better options than relying on mass tourism activities that exploit and harm wildlife.\u201d", "tags": ["Wildlife holidays", "Mexico holidays", "Dolphins", "Wildlife", "Marine life", "Cetaceans", "Environment", "Travel", "North and Central America holidays", "Mexico"], "title": "Dolphin tours cancelled at Mexico travel conference"},{"date": "2014-08-08T11:22:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A small group of beekeepers in Mexico has inflicted a blow on biotech giant Monsanto, which has halted the company\u2019s ambitions to plant thousands of hectares of soybeans genetically modified to resist the company\u2019s pesticide Roundup.A district judge in the state of Yucat\u00e1n last month overturned a permit issued to Monsanto by Mexico\u2019s agriculture ministry, Sagarpa, and environmental protection agency, Semarnat, in June 2012 that allowed commercial planting of Roundup-ready soybeans.The permit authorised Monsanto to plant its seeds in seven states, over more than 253,000 hectares (625,000 acres), despite protests from thousands of Mayan farmers and beekeepers, Greenpeace, the\u00a0Mexican\u00a0National\u00a0Commission for the Knowledge\u00a0and\u00a0Use\u00a0of Biodiversity,\u00a0the National Commission\u00a0of Natural Protected Areas\u00a0and the National Institute\u00a0of Ecology.\u00a0In withdrawing the permit, the judge was convinced by the scientific evidence presented about the threats posed by GM soy crops to\u00a0honey\u00a0production\u00a0in the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula, which includes Campeche, Quintana\u00a0Roo\u00a0and Yucat\u00e1n states. Co-existence between honey production and GM soybeans is not possible, the judge ruled.Mexico is the world\u2019s six biggest producer and third largest exporter of honey. About 25,000 families on the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula depend on honey production. This tropical region produces about 40% of the country\u2019s honey, almost all of which is exported to the EU. This is not small change: in 2011, the EU imported $54m (\u00a332m) worth of Mexican honey.The concerns are multiple. Roundup-ready crops \u2013 soybeans, corn, canola, sugar beets, cotton and alfalfa \u2013 have been manipulated to be resistant to glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup.Some argue that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health, a claim that Monsanto and other agribusinesses reject.In addition to health risks, environmental damage to soil, water and bee colonies \u2013 which are dwindling fast \u2013 have been attributed glyphosate use, threatening food and water security across the globe.GM crops could devastate the important European export market for Mexican beekeepers, where the sale of honey containing pollen derived from GM crops has been restricted since a landmark decision in 2011 by the European court of justice.The ruling barred honey derived from a GM crop unapproved for human consumption \u2013 which includes some soy and other animal feeds \u2013 from sale in the EU. Honey with more than 0.9% of GM pollen (from an approved GM food) must be labelled as containing GM ingredients and cannot be marketed as an organic product. Some countries, including Germany, reject honey that contains any GM pollen.A small study conducted in Campeche, where about 10,000 hectares of GM soybeans were planted after the permit was approved in 2012, found GM pollen in some honey samples destined for the European market. This, say the authors, threatens the local honey industry and contradicts the position taken by Sagarpa and industry groups that soybeans are not visited or pollinated by bees searching for food because they can self-pollinate.The Monsanto ruling was commended by the respected national newspaper La Jornada, which accused the Mexican government of ignoring widespread concerns over GM and forcing those opponents to fight it out in court with powerful multinational companies. The government\u2019s stated ambition of eliminating hunger is incompatible with its decisions to increasingly allow multinational companies such as Monsanto to introduce GM crops, the paper\u2019s editorial concluded.Central to the ruling was the Mexican constitution, specifically the government\u2019s obligation to fully consult indigenous communities before making any major decision about what happens, including what is grown, on their territory. The judge ordered planting to stop and gave Sagarpa six months to carry out full and proper consultations with indigenous farmers \u2013 which it should have done before the permit was granted in 2012.It was this same omission that led to an almost identical ruling by a district judge in Campeche in March 2014.These two judgments have set a precedent that will help farmers, campaigners and environmentalists take local legal action against the rollout of GM soy and corn, which the federal government is sanctioning without consultation and against experts\u2019 advice.But this is a high-stakes game to play, in which indigenous communities are being forced to fight their own government and multinational corporations with multimillion-dollar legal departments, simply to have their constitutional rights honoured and protect their traditional ways of farming and living.So while a third victory in Chiapas, where a similar case is pending, could soon follow, this is almost certainly only round one. Monsanto will probably appeal against the decision to a higher court.The North American Free Trade Agreement, criticised by some for crippling small-scale Mexican farming, is not on the side of the beekeepers. This David and Goliath battle is about so much more than honey.", "tags": ["Private sector", "Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Bees", "GM", "Environment"], "title": "Sweet victory for Mexico beekeepers as Monsanto loses GM permit | Nina Lakhani"},{"date": "2014-09-10T15:00:15Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Naturally, I didn\u2019t find the horse like this. I shot it in Mexico in 2002, having been invited to make a work in response to the late architect Luis Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s house in Mexico City. Before I went along to see the house, I took a virtual tour \u2013 and was struck by a wooden sculpture of a horse, sitting on a plinth on the roof terrace.When I finally got there, the horse was missing. I asked the guide where it was and he looked surprised. Apparently, after Barrag\u00e1n died, the contents of the house were removed so repairs could be made. When everything was brought back, the horse was missing. So the thing I\u00a0most remembered was the thing that was no longer there.A little later, I was in Guadalajara working on\u00a0a\u00a0project for a small,\u00a0artist-run gallery in a skyscraper. When I went up on the roof, I immediately remembered Barrag\u00e1n\u2019s horse. He wasn\u2019t just from Guadalajara, he\u2019d also been friends with the architect who built this skyscraper. But these details weren\u2019t so\u00a0important: the main thing was my feeling of absence, my belief it represented more than presence. I\u00a0decided to get a horse up there.The structure it rests on was tailor-made. It had to support the horse carefully, not so tight that it hurt, but tight enough so it wouldn\u2019t fall off. There was nothing really dramatic about the shoot. The horse\u2019s owner was there, which kept things calm. It took four people to lift the horse, crossing hands under its belly, while somebody else kept the platform steady. It took just 20 seconds. I guess the horse was taken by surprise: by the time it realised\u00a0what was going on, it was already back on the\u00a0ground. We repeated the procedure,\u00a0lifting it up and down several times until I got a picture I\u00a0was\u00a0happy with.I like the tension: the horse looks like it has been rejected, while at the same time it has been handled with care. It is both landing and taking off, which lends the shot an absurd equilibrium. And it seems lighter than it should be, like there\u2019s no gravity. When something is out of its normal context \u2013 this horse should be running about freely, not being pulled upwards \u2013 we question not just what we see, but our whole sense of place. What is it\u00a0that makes us feel grounded? And why do we take it as a given?The whole process, from idea to shoot, took less than 48 hours. This could only have happened in Mexico.Born: Albania, 1974Studied: Ecole Nationale Sup\u00e9rieure des Arts D\u00e9coratifs, ParisInfluences: \u201cAn artist who later became my professor, but who was forbidden to work during the Albanian dictatorship; and Edi Rama, who was an artist and is now Albanian prime minister.\u201dHighs and lows: \u201cThey\u2019re subjective. Something you might perceive as a low point may later seem like a high.\u201dTop tip: \u201cDon\u2019t take too much advice.\u201d\u2022 Anri Sala has been nominated for the Vincent award, showing at The Gemeentemuseum in, The Hague, until 1 February.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Culture", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Anri Sala\u2019s best shot: a live horse on a plinth in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-09-09T11:30:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Viridiana Martinez was accepted into her dream school a decade ago. It was the worst day of her life. Martinez was an undocumented migrant. With no green card, she was still able to attend an American high school and become an honors student \u2013 a perfect scenario, until she found out that colleges could not accept her without a visa. Getting the acceptance letter from North Carolina State University was, she says, like a \u201cfuneral\u201d.\u201cThe day that that happened, my whole world came tumbling down. I still remember what that was like,\u201d says Martinez, voice shaking. \u201cI still remember what graduation day was like. What was supposed to be this next step, this transition in my life was not a good transition. It wasn\u2019t positive. It was like a funeral.\u201d Shortly after that, Martinez tried to kill herself. She was 17. Martinez is far from alone. In 2010, undocumented Texas teenager Joaquin Luna discovered the Dream Act failed to pass the Senate. A few months later, he put on his best suit and killed himself.Martinez and Luna are among the hundreds of thousands of undocumented youths who have risked their lives and safety to make it into the US. They get the dream \u2013 for a while. They have access to public education and other perks of being an American. But there is a ceiling on their achievement: as high school graduation approaches, reality changes. Colleges in most US states won\u2019t accept them until they are legal. The number of job prospects shrink, and what\u2019s available is low-paid. Depression and suicide often follow. The bitter disappointment that comes with growing up undocumented in the US can be traumatic. Most undocumented migrants don\u2019t have healthcare or counseling resources to deal with their emotions, so they bottle them inside, remaining silent about what\u2019s it like to grow up undocumented in the US. There\u2019s also little hope that things will change. This past Saturday, the White House announced that it would hold-off action on immigration until after the midterm elections. The Obama administration has made other attempts at reform: the Dream Act, which failed, and in 2012 the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca), which would \u201clift the shadow of deportation\u201d from the undocumented youth.There are 775,000 undocumented youngsters under 18 living in the US, according to a recent report from Pew Research Center. Another 850,000 are eligible for Daca. This means they are at least 15 years old, were under 31 in June 2012, when Daca was announced by the White House, arrived in the US before their 16th birthday and have lived here continuously since 2007.Under Daca, these undocumented migrants then qualify for temporary relief from deportation and a two-year work permit which has to be renewed every two years. The estimates for the total potential Daca-eligible community range from 1.2 million to 2.1 million, yet only 673,000 have applied for their initial work permit by June of this year. \u201cDaca is like crumbs. It\u2019s little thing so that you can get ahead, but then you are stuck anyway,\u201d explains Angy Rivera, and immigration activist and advice columnist.Martinez now describes the day she tried to kill herself as a turning point. Instead of going to college, she devoted her time to immigration activism and is a co-founder of North Carolina Dream Team. \u201cStopping deportations, that\u2019s what I do,\u201d she says.One of the deportations that Martinez has attempted to stop was that of Yanelli Hernandez. The attempt failed. Hernandez served nine months in jail for driving under the influence. She was sent to an immigration detention center. In detention, Hernandez, who attempted to kill herself in 2008, tried to do it again.Immigration activists lobbying to prevent her deportation tried to make a case that were she deported, she wouldn\u2019t have access to the level of mental health care available in the US. \u201c[It] would be very sad if she goes to [Mexico] and commits suicide there,\u201d said Jorge Martinez, who filed an emergency stay of removal on her behalf. Hernandez was sent back to Mexico in January 2012.\u201cI haven\u2019t had any contact with her after [her removal],\u201d Martinez told the Guardian. \u201cI was informed that the next day after removal she was robbed in Mexico of the little money she had with her.\u201dRivera, the advice columnist, says that talking about her undocumented status with others in similar situations helped. Rivera came to US as a child in 1994, to \u201cescape a life of violence and poverty in Colombia\u201d.As with Martinez, her defining moment was when she found out that she wasn\u2019t eligible for financial aid. Rivera applied for and was awarded a New York State Youth Leadership Council scholarship, which came with a summer internship. Working there was the first time she saw others talking about their legal status and decided to share her story.\u201cIt was the first time that I had been able to talk to somebody who understood,\u201d she says. \u201cHaving someone to talk to who understands is a big deal.\u201dAlthough undocumented youths can find support in each other, many activists believe that they can do better job of being there for each other.\u201cWe haven\u2019t addressed our own internal issues and mental health and made it priority to be there for each other, because we are all so broken. We all have our own traumas,\u201d says Martinez.For Rivera, that trauma was being sexually assaulted when she was a teenager.It wasn\u2019t like the typical teenage drama, like liking a boy, or trying to figure out who your friends are. I was dealing with being undocumented and what the weight of that was and then also coming to terms with the fact that I had been assaulted. That impacted the way I trusted and communicated with everybody.The assault made her eligible for a \u2018U\u2019 visa, something that she wasn\u2019t aware of until she went to file for Daca. \u2018U\u2019 visas are for crime victims \u201cwho have suffered substantial mental or physical abuse and are willing to help law enforcement authorities investigate or prosecute those crimes\u201d, according to US Citizen and Immigration Services. There are only 10,000 U visas available each year.As President Obama postpones action on immigration until after the November election, activists urge those in the undocumented community to find someone to talk to about their struggles.\u201cLiving in that fear, living in that silence, it\u2019s very lonely,\u201d says Rivera. \u201cAnd you drown. I did. For a long time.\u201d", "tags": ["US personal finance", "US immigration", "Mental health", "Health", "Depression", "Dream Act", "US news"], "title": "Deportation and depression: 'It would be sad if she goes to Mexico and commits suicide there'"},{"date": "2014-09-05T16:13:36Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Afonso Dhlakama, leader of former rebel group Renamoin Mozambique, who came out of hiding to sign a landmark peace treaty with President Armando Guebuza. The treaty marks the end of a two year conflict in the country. Al-Anbar governorate in Iraq, where the World Food Programme has resumed its deliveries for the first time since May. Dalai Lama, who has cancelled a trip to South Africa after officials said his visa application had been denied. Human rights in Mexico, after Amnesty International reports a 600% rise in the number of reported cases of torture and ill-treatment in the past decade. Our quote this week comes from Helen Clark, head of the United Nations Development Programme, speaking at the International Conference for Small Island Developing States in Samoa this week.The stance of small island developing nations is clear \u2013 they are advocates for, and role models of, the transformative changes towards sustainable development which the world needs to make. In response to our article \u2018Development: not for people from different work and ethnic backgrounds?\u2019 one contributor argued:The development sector is professionalising and getting a job in development is something that requires serious knowledge and the ability to add significant value to the projects and communities you\u2019re supposed to be supporting. Getting a job in development is not a right.1 billion people drink water contaminated by faeces, says Unicef and World Health Organisation report. \u00a3600bn is lost by poor countries due to corruption, causing an estimated 3.6 million deaths a year.95,000 children and teenagers - most of them in Latin America and the Caribbean - were murdered in 2012. 1,900 people have died so far from Ebola according to the World health Organisation. One in 10 girls are sexually abused says UN report Hidden in plain sight.Chile has opened its largest ever wind farm. The El Arrayan farm cost \u00a3180m and consists of 50 turbines that are expected to provide 20% of the country\u2019s energy. Indian prime minister Narendra Modi has completed his first 100 days in power after winning a landslide victory in May. Health experts have met in Geneva to discuss fast-tracking experimental drugs for Ebola as the death doll continues to rise in West Africa. Israel has seized over 400 hectares of West Bank Land. Anti-settlement activists claimed it as the largest land grab in 30 years. This week at World Water Week in Stockholm, Unicef India shared insights from their \u2018Poo to the Loo\u2019 campaign against open defecation in the country. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Research", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Sanitation", "Gender", "Ebola", "Renewable energy", "Narendra Modi", "Humanitarian response", "humanitarians"], "title": "World in a week: 600% rise in reports of torture in Mexico"},{"date": "2014-08-26T18:17:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The government of Mexico has announced a plan to modernise the freight railway that runs through the country in an effort to discourage Central American migrants from riding the trains on their way to the US border.The 6,000m peso (\u00a3275m) project includes purchasing 12 satellite-monitored vehicles to run ahead of the trains and relay information about what lies along the track, which is traditionally lined with groups of migrants waiting to board as it trundles by. It could also include replacing large sections of track to increase speed and make jumping on more difficult.The government says the plan is designed to protect the migrants. Hundreds have died or lost limbs in bungled attempts to board the train \u2013 popularly known as the Beast \u2013 or after going to sleep and falling off. Some have been pushed off by criminal gangs who roam the route. Rapes are common.\"The first objective is to prevent migrants from putting themselves at risk by using a cargo train that is not meant for passengers,\" Humberto Mayans, the official in charge of the plan, told reporters.He also promised action to \"combat and eradicate the criminal groups who attack their rights\".Migrant rights activists, however, say the plan will make matters worse. They say faster trains will mean more accidents for those who still try to board, and tighter controls will leave others ever more at the mercy of the organised criminal smuggling networks. These are already notorious for mass kidnappings and massacres.\"It is not that we want people to take the train, but at least it makes them more visible,\" activist Rub\u00e9n Figueroa said last week at the shelter he helps run in southern Mexico. He was talking after a series of raids by immigration authorities along the tracks that preceded the formal announcement of the modernisation plan.The Beast has attracted particular attention recently because of the political backlash in the US around this year's dramatic increase in the number of unaccompanied child migrants from Central America arriving in southern Texas. Many are fleeing the reign of terror exercised by street gangs in Honduras and El Salvador.There are now more checkpoints near Mexico's border with Guatemala, meaning migrants taking busses are more at risk of being extorted by corrupt officials or detained and deported.Even so, a steady stream of Central Americans still arrives every day at the church-run shelters along their traditional routes. Many appear determined to keep going, however many risks and dangers lie ahead.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Migration and development", "US immigration", "US news", "Honduras", "Guatemala", "El Salvador"], "title": "Mexico plans boost to the Beast to discourage Central American migrants"},{"date": "2014-08-12T12:53:57Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The world's smallest porpoise faces imminent extinction unless the Mexican government eliminates gill-net fishing in its only habitat, the upper Sea of Cortez, scientists have warned.Recent studies conducted using underwater acoustic technology show that since 2012 the population of the vaquita marina \u2013 Spanish for little sea cow \u2013 has fallen to fewer than 100.The sharp rise in gill-net fishing has been triggered by a booming illegal trade in the totoaba fish driven by Chinese demand for its swim bladder, which is believed to have medicinal properties.The porpoises face being caught up in the nets and with mature females, probably now numbering about 25, typically giving birth to one calf every two years, the species could potentially be wiped out in a short space of timeby the end of the year.\"It is a critical situation,\" said Barbara Taylor, from the national oceanic and atmospheric administration in the US, and a member of the International Committee for the Recovery of the Vaquita, which carried out the latest study.\"It's time for Mexico to decide if it really wants to save the vaquita and be an example to the world, or a wake-up call for what gill nets can do.\"Fine-meshed gill nets have long been identified as the only real problem the vaquitas face in the clean water of the sea, also known as the Gulf of California. The marine mammals, whose scientific name is Phocoena sinus, are particularly vulnerable to getting trapped and drowning in the nets used to catch totoaba, which are about the same size as the porpoise.The current spike in totoaba fishing was apparently triggered by falling numbers of a similar fish caught in Chinese waters. There are unconfirmed reports that the trade is also being fuelled by drug traffickers developing new lines of business.Lorenzo Rojas, a Mexican scientist on the committee, said fishermen told him buyers were offering $8,500 (\u00a35,064) per kg at the end of 2012. The bladder of a mature fish weighs about half a kilo.\"It's a brutal incentive,\" Rojas said. \"They can earn in a few catches what they would normally earn in a year.\"Omar Vidal of WWF, which helps sponsor the committee, said: \"We have run out of time and we cannot afford more mortalities", "tags": ["Marine life", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Animals", "World news", "Fishing", "Food", "Conservation", "Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico urged to act and save world's smallest porpoise \u2013 the little sea cow"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-11-09T19:11:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A demonstration sparked by the Mexican government\u2019s announcement that 43 student teachers disappeared by police in the southern city of Iguala six weeks ago were probably massacred in a rubbish dump, ended at the weekend with masked protesters setting fire to the wooden door of the ceremonial presidential palace in Mexico City\u2019s main Z\u00f3calo plaza.The protesters broke away from the otherwise peaceful demonstration as it drew to a close, tearing down the protective metal fences set up around the palace at its imposing door before they set it on fire. Clashes with riot police followed before the square was cleared.Anger over the disappearance of the students, after they were attacked by municipal police in Iguala on 26 September, has been mounting in recent weeks. Protests have included large marches, and attacks on public buildings and bus stations.Over time the focus of the protests has moved from the demand for the students to be found to criticism of the government\u2019s handling of the investigation, which it took over from state authorities 10 days after the events.Many protesters in Mexico City carried handmade banners with the words Ya me cans\u00e9 (\u201cI\u2019ve Had Enough\u201d or \u201cI\u2019m Tired\u201d), in reference to a comment made by Mexico\u2019s attorney general, Jes\u00fas Murillo, at the end of the press conference on Friday.The phrase has been turned on its head to express public exhaustion with both the violence that has taken hold in many parts of Mexico, where organised criminal activity is protected by corrupt authorities, as well as the federal government\u2019s failure to act against it, which many believe underpins the events in Iguala.The US-based group Human Rights Watch has described the events in Iguala as the worst case of abuse to take place in Latin America in the past few decades. The organisation\u2019s Americas director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, said: \u201cThese killings and forced disappearances reflect a much broader pattern of abuse and are largely the consequence of the longstanding failure of Mexican authorities to address the problem.\u201dProtesters also chanted: \u201cIt was the state\u201d, in an effort to push home the message that the federal authorities have yet to accept the depth of the institutional crisis exposed by the apparent massacre.The march in the capital came in direct response to the government\u2019s announcement on Friday that its investigation has established that dozens of young people were massacred in a rubbish dump outside the town of Cocula, that borders Iguala.Murillo said it took place a few hours after municipal police arrested dozens of students in the city and handed them over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos. The mayor of Iguala had allegedly been in league with the gang since he took office two years ago.The students, from a radical teacher training college about two hours\u2019 drive away, were in Iguala to commandeer buses to use in a later protest.Murillo said the investigation has corroborated information given by arrested gang members who confessed to participating in the massacre, that the victims were incinerated in a huge funeral pyre that burned for 14 hours. He said the ashes and charred remains left after the fire burned itself out were collected in plastic bags and disposed of in a nearby river; some remains have now been retrieved.He said a laboratory in Austria has been contracted to try to identify the remains, as the Mexican authorities do not have the technological capacity to do so.Parents of the students have claimed the government wants to close the case. They have said they will continue to hope their children are alive until there is scientific evidence to the contrary.Before he cut the press conference short, Murillo dismissed a question about why neither soldiers nor federal police stationed in Iguala had intervened when the municipal police were attacking and arresting the students. \u201cIf the army had come out at that moment, who would they have supported?\u201d Murillo asked. \u201cObviously the answer would have been the legal authorities and it would have been a much bigger problem.\u201dSuch answers do not satisfy the protesters and international human rights groups who now regularly describe what happened to the students as a crime of state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Mexico: protests at admission that 43 missing students were massacred"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-11-09T19:11:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A demonstration sparked by the Mexican government\u2019s announcement that 43 student teachers disappeared by police in the southern city of Iguala six weeks ago were probably massacred in a rubbish dump, ended at the weekend with masked protesters setting fire to the wooden door of the ceremonial presidential palace in Mexico City\u2019s main Z\u00f3calo plaza.The protesters broke away from the otherwise peaceful demonstration as it drew to a close, tearing down the protective metal fences set up around the palace at its imposing door before they set it on fire. Clashes with riot police followed before the square was cleared.Anger over the disappearance of the students, after they were attacked by municipal police in Iguala on 26 September, has been mounting in recent weeks. Protests have included large marches, and attacks on public buildings and bus stations.Over time the focus of the protests has moved from the demand for the students to be found to criticism of the government\u2019s handling of the investigation, which it took over from state authorities 10 days after the events.Many protesters in Mexico City carried handmade banners with the words Ya me cans\u00e9 (\u201cI\u2019ve Had Enough\u201d or \u201cI\u2019m Tired\u201d), in reference to a comment made by Mexico\u2019s attorney general, Jes\u00fas Murillo, at the end of the press conference on Friday.The phrase has been turned on its head to express public exhaustion with both the violence that has taken hold in many parts of Mexico, where organised criminal activity is protected by corrupt authorities, as well as the federal government\u2019s failure to act against it, which many believe underpins the events in Iguala.The US-based group Human Rights Watch has described the events in Iguala as the worst case of abuse to take place in Latin America in the past few decades. The organisation\u2019s Americas director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, said: \u201cThese killings and forced disappearances reflect a much broader pattern of abuse and are largely the consequence of the longstanding failure of Mexican authorities to address the problem.\u201dProtesters also chanted: \u201cIt was the state\u201d, in an effort to push home the message that the federal authorities have yet to accept the depth of the institutional crisis exposed by the apparent massacre.The march in the capital came in direct response to the government\u2019s announcement on Friday that its investigation has established that dozens of young people were massacred in a rubbish dump outside the town of Cocula, that borders Iguala.Murillo said it took place a few hours after municipal police arrested dozens of students in the city and handed them over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos. The mayor of Iguala had allegedly been in league with the gang since he took office two years ago.The students, from a radical teacher training college about two hours\u2019 drive away, were in Iguala to commandeer buses to use in a later protest.Murillo said the investigation has corroborated information given by arrested gang members who confessed to participating in the massacre, that the victims were incinerated in a huge funeral pyre that burned for 14 hours. He said the ashes and charred remains left after the fire burned itself out were collected in plastic bags and disposed of in a nearby river; some remains have now been retrieved.He said a laboratory in Austria has been contracted to try to identify the remains, as the Mexican authorities do not have the technological capacity to do so.Parents of the students have claimed the government wants to close the case. They have said they will continue to hope their children are alive until there is scientific evidence to the contrary.Before he cut the press conference short, Murillo dismissed a question about why neither soldiers nor federal police stationed in Iguala had intervened when the municipal police were attacking and arresting the students. \u201cIf the army had come out at that moment, who would they have supported?\u201d Murillo asked. \u201cObviously the answer would have been the legal authorities and it would have been a much bigger problem.\u201dSuch answers do not satisfy the protesters and international human rights groups who now regularly describe what happened to the students as a crime of state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Mexico: protests at admission that 43 missing students were massacred"},{"date": "2014-10-31T06:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Opened in 1907, this design classic recalls the opulence of turn-of-the-20th-century Mexico City. Replete with overstuffed furniture, oil paintings, and stained-glass ceilings, the lobby (which also doubles as a small museum) is remarkably well preserved, as is the adjoining atrium restaurant \u2013 filled with leafy plants and singing birds. Small, carpeted guestrooms show their age more readily than the common areas, with many boasting furnishings from when the hotel opened. Yet the rooms are well-priced, considering their history and the hotel has a fantastic location in the heart of the Zona Rosa. Though not as upscale as it was, this pretty neighbourhood is central, safe, and a major shopping and nightlife destination.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a372, +52 55 50 800 800, hotelgeneve.com.mxThe heart-of-it-all location, just a block from Mexico City\u2019s central plaza, is what most recommends the perennially popular Hotel Catedral, but this amiable spot is also fantastic value, with attractive, modern rooms kept immaculate by the friendly housekeepers \u2013 and equipped with air-conditioning, filtered water, and Wi-Fi. Some rooms have balconies and, better yet, views of the surrounding Centro Hist\u00f3rico. For the best vista, request a room on a higher floor overlooking the back of the city\u2019s Metropolitan Cathedral, or simply have a drink on the top-floor roof deck.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a338, +52 55 5518 5232, hotelcatedral.comThe ultra-chic, design-centric hoteliers behind the Habita and CondesaDF hotels recently opened Downtown Mexico, an upscale guesthouse in a 17th-century palace. Well-chosen furnishings highlight the high ceilings and original architectural details in each of the guestrooms, and though there\u2019s no lobby, the onsite shops and restaurants make the Downtown a destination in itself. It\u2019s worth a splurge to stay there, though savvy backpackers will head straight to the smartly designed hostel, Downtown Beds, on the ground floor of the same building. This is not your average dorm-style accommodation: there\u2019s a funky-cool aesthetic throughout the bedrooms, shared baths, and common areas, which include a patio bar and screening room. And guests at either establishment have access to the rooftop pool and lounge.\u2022 Downtown Mexico: doubles from \u00a3105, +52 55 5130 6830, downtownmexico.com. Downtown Beds: dorm beds from \u00a310, private doubles \u00a328 B&B +52 55 5282 2199, downtownbeds.comIn recent years, the rough-around-the-edges San Rafael neighbourhood has experienced a modest renaissance as young people, and galleries, move into the area\u2019s neglected 19th-century buildings. Here, amid car-repair shops and funky old coffee joints, you\u2019ll find the endearing, eco-friendly B&B, El Patio 77. It is in a beautifully restored mansion and has four suites with soaring ceilings, French windows, and light-filled bathrooms, tastefully decorated with craft and antiques. To save a few pesos, there are four equally charming and reasonably-priced rooms with shared bathroom. All rooms include a fresh-made breakfast in the breakfast room and gallery, where you\u2019re likely to find yourself chatting with the hotel\u2019s friendly owners.\u2022 Doubles with shared bath from \u00a356 B&B, suites from \u00a371 B&B, +52 55 5592 8452, elpatio77.comTo see a different side of Mexico City, stay at Casa de los Amigos; it\u2019s a Quaker-run nonprofit organisation and guesthouse that rents small private rooms and dorm beds by the night. Among other social activities, Casa de los Amigos does important work housing political refugees from around the world, so you may end up bunking with someone who has just come to Mexico from far away. Guests often get involved in projects at the house, or glean valuable city tips from the long-term volunteers, who also live onsite. There\u2019s a cosy shared kitchen that serves as an informal gathering spot, as well as a pretty, light-filled library, which is used for reading and weekly Quaker meetings.\u2022 Dorm beds \u00a35, private doubles from \u00a319 (suggested donation), +52 55 5705 0521, casadelosamigos.orgOne of Mexico City\u2019s central arteries, the Paseo de la Reforma is a monument-studded boulevard lined with banks, embassies, high-rise office buildings, and luxury hotels. Originally designed at the end of the 19th century, the avenue hasn\u2019t lost its grand appeal, even if it\u2019s now plagued by traffic. You can get a sense of the old grandeur at the Hotel Imperial Reforma, one of the most unique buildings on the avenue: its white, wedge-shaped facade and brass dome overlooking the bustle below. Long in operation, today it is a comfortable and well-located mid-range hotel, with dated yet surprisingly spacious guestrooms, many with desks and sitting areas.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a356, +52 55 5705 4911, hotelimperial.mxYou could almost imagine your life as a Mexico City local while staying at the Red Tree House, a warm B&B in a 1930s-era home in the Condesa district, one of the capital\u2019s most charming residential neighbourhoods. Here, it\u2019s easy to make yourself comfortable in the sweet, slightly whimsical bedrooms that open onto a serene, tree-filled courtyard. Friendliness and hospitality are the Red Tree House\u2019s hallmark: The staff make an effort to connect with their guests, while visitors frequently gather to chat over home-cooked breakfasts (included in the nightly price) or during complimentary wine service in the evenings.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a379 B&B, +52 55 5584 3829, theredtreehouse.comWith five rambling floors of intriguing, creaky guestrooms, Hotel Isabel has long been a favourite with budget travellers looking to make their pesos stretch without sacrificing a bit of old Mexican character. Rooms in this long-running establishment vary tremendously in size, furnishings, and comfort: some are spacious with draped windows and balconies; others are smaller, with interior windows and single beds (if the hotel isn\u2019t full, ask to see a few options when you check in). The service is bare bones but you\u2019ll want to spend most of your time outside anyway. Right in the heart of the Centro Hist\u00f3rico, Isabel is a perfect jumping-off point to explore Mexico City\u2019s oldest neighbourhood.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a324 B&B, +52 55 5518 1213, hotel-isabel.com.mxStep outside the Hotel Milan and you\u2019ll encounter literary types browsing fiction and philosophy at El P\u00e9ndulo bookshop to your left, while a hip crowd convenes at cocktail bar Limantour to your right. The hotel is on one of the most happening blocks on one of the most happening streets in the city. Inside, however, the hotel is pleasantly removed from the bustle, with recently renovated rooms that are small, clean, and modern. Some face the interior courtyard, while other, more atmospheric (though also noisier) rooms overlook Alvaro Obregon Avenue.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a333 B&B, +52 55 5584 0222, hotelmilan.com.mxThis comfortable hotel on the Roma district\u2019s main shopping and nightlife corridor is a step up from the many budget options in the area: there are wall-mounted flatscreen TVs, writing desks, and large bathrooms in all of the surprisingly spacious guestrooms, plus laundry service, Wi-Fi, plus a bar and restaurant. Don\u2019t expect a contemporary look \u2013 carpeted accommodation has dark, oversized wooden furniture and retro bedspreads \u2013 but comfort comes in spades for the price. Not to mention, the choice Roma location is perfect for foodies coming to explore the city\u2019s diverse dining scene.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a346 B&B, +52 55 5208 0052, stanzahotel.comAll prices include taxesJulie Doherty Meade is the author of Moon Mexico City and Moon Metro New York City ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Mexico City holidays", "Bed and breakfasts", "Budget travel", "Hostels", "City breaks", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 budget hotels and B&Bs in Mexico City"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-11-09T19:11:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A demonstration sparked by the Mexican government\u2019s announcement that 43 student teachers disappeared by police in the southern city of Iguala six weeks ago were probably massacred in a rubbish dump, ended at the weekend with masked protesters setting fire to the wooden door of the ceremonial presidential palace in Mexico City\u2019s main Z\u00f3calo plaza.The protesters broke away from the otherwise peaceful demonstration as it drew to a close, tearing down the protective metal fences set up around the palace at its imposing door before they set it on fire. Clashes with riot police followed before the square was cleared.Anger over the disappearance of the students, after they were attacked by municipal police in Iguala on 26 September, has been mounting in recent weeks. Protests have included large marches, and attacks on public buildings and bus stations.Over time the focus of the protests has moved from the demand for the students to be found to criticism of the government\u2019s handling of the investigation, which it took over from state authorities 10 days after the events.Many protesters in Mexico City carried handmade banners with the words Ya me cans\u00e9 (\u201cI\u2019ve Had Enough\u201d or \u201cI\u2019m Tired\u201d), in reference to a comment made by Mexico\u2019s attorney general, Jes\u00fas Murillo, at the end of the press conference on Friday.The phrase has been turned on its head to express public exhaustion with both the violence that has taken hold in many parts of Mexico, where organised criminal activity is protected by corrupt authorities, as well as the federal government\u2019s failure to act against it, which many believe underpins the events in Iguala.The US-based group Human Rights Watch has described the events in Iguala as the worst case of abuse to take place in Latin America in the past few decades. The organisation\u2019s Americas director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, said: \u201cThese killings and forced disappearances reflect a much broader pattern of abuse and are largely the consequence of the longstanding failure of Mexican authorities to address the problem.\u201dProtesters also chanted: \u201cIt was the state\u201d, in an effort to push home the message that the federal authorities have yet to accept the depth of the institutional crisis exposed by the apparent massacre.The march in the capital came in direct response to the government\u2019s announcement on Friday that its investigation has established that dozens of young people were massacred in a rubbish dump outside the town of Cocula, that borders Iguala.Murillo said it took place a few hours after municipal police arrested dozens of students in the city and handed them over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos. The mayor of Iguala had allegedly been in league with the gang since he took office two years ago.The students, from a radical teacher training college about two hours\u2019 drive away, were in Iguala to commandeer buses to use in a later protest.Murillo said the investigation has corroborated information given by arrested gang members who confessed to participating in the massacre, that the victims were incinerated in a huge funeral pyre that burned for 14 hours. He said the ashes and charred remains left after the fire burned itself out were collected in plastic bags and disposed of in a nearby river; some remains have now been retrieved.He said a laboratory in Austria has been contracted to try to identify the remains, as the Mexican authorities do not have the technological capacity to do so.Parents of the students have claimed the government wants to close the case. They have said they will continue to hope their children are alive until there is scientific evidence to the contrary.Before he cut the press conference short, Murillo dismissed a question about why neither soldiers nor federal police stationed in Iguala had intervened when the municipal police were attacking and arresting the students. \u201cIf the army had come out at that moment, who would they have supported?\u201d Murillo asked. \u201cObviously the answer would have been the legal authorities and it would have been a much bigger problem.\u201dSuch answers do not satisfy the protesters and international human rights groups who now regularly describe what happened to the students as a crime of state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Mexico: protests at admission that 43 missing students were massacred"},{"date": "2014-10-31T06:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Opened in 1907, this design classic recalls the opulence of turn-of-the-20th-century Mexico City. Replete with overstuffed furniture, oil paintings, and stained-glass ceilings, the lobby (which also doubles as a small museum) is remarkably well preserved, as is the adjoining atrium restaurant \u2013 filled with leafy plants and singing birds. Small, carpeted guestrooms show their age more readily than the common areas, with many boasting furnishings from when the hotel opened. Yet the rooms are well-priced, considering their history and the hotel has a fantastic location in the heart of the Zona Rosa. Though not as upscale as it was, this pretty neighbourhood is central, safe, and a major shopping and nightlife destination.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a372, +52 55 50 800 800, hotelgeneve.com.mxThe heart-of-it-all location, just a block from Mexico City\u2019s central plaza, is what most recommends the perennially popular Hotel Catedral, but this amiable spot is also fantastic value, with attractive, modern rooms kept immaculate by the friendly housekeepers \u2013 and equipped with air-conditioning, filtered water, and Wi-Fi. Some rooms have balconies and, better yet, views of the surrounding Centro Hist\u00f3rico. For the best vista, request a room on a higher floor overlooking the back of the city\u2019s Metropolitan Cathedral, or simply have a drink on the top-floor roof deck.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a338, +52 55 5518 5232, hotelcatedral.comThe ultra-chic, design-centric hoteliers behind the Habita and CondesaDF hotels recently opened Downtown Mexico, an upscale guesthouse in a 17th-century palace. Well-chosen furnishings highlight the high ceilings and original architectural details in each of the guestrooms, and though there\u2019s no lobby, the onsite shops and restaurants make the Downtown a destination in itself. It\u2019s worth a splurge to stay there, though savvy backpackers will head straight to the smartly designed hostel, Downtown Beds, on the ground floor of the same building. This is not your average dorm-style accommodation: there\u2019s a funky-cool aesthetic throughout the bedrooms, shared baths, and common areas, which include a patio bar and screening room. And guests at either establishment have access to the rooftop pool and lounge.\u2022 Downtown Mexico: doubles from \u00a3105, +52 55 5130 6830, downtownmexico.com. Downtown Beds: dorm beds from \u00a310, private doubles \u00a328 B&B +52 55 5282 2199, downtownbeds.comIn recent years, the rough-around-the-edges San Rafael neighbourhood has experienced a modest renaissance as young people, and galleries, move into the area\u2019s neglected 19th-century buildings. Here, amid car-repair shops and funky old coffee joints, you\u2019ll find the endearing, eco-friendly B&B, El Patio 77. It is in a beautifully restored mansion and has four suites with soaring ceilings, French windows, and light-filled bathrooms, tastefully decorated with craft and antiques. To save a few pesos, there are four equally charming and reasonably-priced rooms with shared bathroom. All rooms include a fresh-made breakfast in the breakfast room and gallery, where you\u2019re likely to find yourself chatting with the hotel\u2019s friendly owners.\u2022 Doubles with shared bath from \u00a356 B&B, suites from \u00a371 B&B, +52 55 5592 8452, elpatio77.comTo see a different side of Mexico City, stay at Casa de los Amigos; it\u2019s a Quaker-run nonprofit organisation and guesthouse that rents small private rooms and dorm beds by the night. Among other social activities, Casa de los Amigos does important work housing political refugees from around the world, so you may end up bunking with someone who has just come to Mexico from far away. Guests often get involved in projects at the house, or glean valuable city tips from the long-term volunteers, who also live onsite. There\u2019s a cosy shared kitchen that serves as an informal gathering spot, as well as a pretty, light-filled library, which is used for reading and weekly Quaker meetings.\u2022 Dorm beds \u00a35, private doubles from \u00a319 (suggested donation), +52 55 5705 0521, casadelosamigos.orgOne of Mexico City\u2019s central arteries, the Paseo de la Reforma is a monument-studded boulevard lined with banks, embassies, high-rise office buildings, and luxury hotels. Originally designed at the end of the 19th century, the avenue hasn\u2019t lost its grand appeal, even if it\u2019s now plagued by traffic. You can get a sense of the old grandeur at the Hotel Imperial Reforma, one of the most unique buildings on the avenue: its white, wedge-shaped facade and brass dome overlooking the bustle below. Long in operation, today it is a comfortable and well-located mid-range hotel, with dated yet surprisingly spacious guestrooms, many with desks and sitting areas.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a356, +52 55 5705 4911, hotelimperial.mxYou could almost imagine your life as a Mexico City local while staying at the Red Tree House, a warm B&B in a 1930s-era home in the Condesa district, one of the capital\u2019s most charming residential neighbourhoods. Here, it\u2019s easy to make yourself comfortable in the sweet, slightly whimsical bedrooms that open onto a serene, tree-filled courtyard. Friendliness and hospitality are the Red Tree House\u2019s hallmark: The staff make an effort to connect with their guests, while visitors frequently gather to chat over home-cooked breakfasts (included in the nightly price) or during complimentary wine service in the evenings.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a379 B&B, +52 55 5584 3829, theredtreehouse.comWith five rambling floors of intriguing, creaky guestrooms, Hotel Isabel has long been a favourite with budget travellers looking to make their pesos stretch without sacrificing a bit of old Mexican character. Rooms in this long-running establishment vary tremendously in size, furnishings, and comfort: some are spacious with draped windows and balconies; others are smaller, with interior windows and single beds (if the hotel isn\u2019t full, ask to see a few options when you check in). The service is bare bones but you\u2019ll want to spend most of your time outside anyway. Right in the heart of the Centro Hist\u00f3rico, Isabel is a perfect jumping-off point to explore Mexico City\u2019s oldest neighbourhood.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a324 B&B, +52 55 5518 1213, hotel-isabel.com.mxStep outside the Hotel Milan and you\u2019ll encounter literary types browsing fiction and philosophy at El P\u00e9ndulo bookshop to your left, while a hip crowd convenes at cocktail bar Limantour to your right. The hotel is on one of the most happening blocks on one of the most happening streets in the city. Inside, however, the hotel is pleasantly removed from the bustle, with recently renovated rooms that are small, clean, and modern. Some face the interior courtyard, while other, more atmospheric (though also noisier) rooms overlook Alvaro Obregon Avenue.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a333 B&B, +52 55 5584 0222, hotelmilan.com.mxThis comfortable hotel on the Roma district\u2019s main shopping and nightlife corridor is a step up from the many budget options in the area: there are wall-mounted flatscreen TVs, writing desks, and large bathrooms in all of the surprisingly spacious guestrooms, plus laundry service, Wi-Fi, plus a bar and restaurant. Don\u2019t expect a contemporary look \u2013 carpeted accommodation has dark, oversized wooden furniture and retro bedspreads \u2013 but comfort comes in spades for the price. Not to mention, the choice Roma location is perfect for foodies coming to explore the city\u2019s diverse dining scene.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a346 B&B, +52 55 5208 0052, stanzahotel.comAll prices include taxesJulie Doherty Meade is the author of Moon Mexico City and Moon Metro New York City ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Mexico City holidays", "Bed and breakfasts", "Budget travel", "Hostels", "City breaks", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 budget hotels and B&Bs in Mexico City"},{"date": "2014-10-16T13:47:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The students who studied at Ayotzinapa, a teacher training college in the state of Guerrero, south west Mexico, went missing on the night of 26 September. After taking part in a protest in the city of Iguala, about 120 miles south of Mexico city, the convoy of buses they were travelling home on came under fire from Iguala\u2019s municipal police. Subsequently a series of mass graves have been discovered just outside Iguala, though it\u2019s as yet unconfirmed whether they contain the bodies of the students. Since the disappearance, thousands of Mexicans have taken part in protests to demand action from the government, here are some of their perspectives. On October 8th, the streets of Guadalajara smelled like sorrow and anger; to some of us, it smelled like murder.When I heard about the students in Ayotzinapa I remember I was in shock because I thought that after the events of Tlatelolco and Atenco, Mexico wouldn\u2019t do it again. I hoped that the people who were supposed to protect us would finally do it. But in Mexico, under this government, hope just means eternal misery.That is the reason why I decided to walk, to join hundreds of people and fight for the students rights, for our rights. During the manifestation, I heard an elder woman yell \u201cWhy are they murdering them? If they are the future of Latin America\u201d That sentence stayed with me all the way to the end and I am sure it will stay forever, at least until my government proves that they were not, nor will be involved in any massacre.In my city, we were about two thousand people asking for a result, good or bad, we wanted answers. We were surrounded by the local police, who are naturally trained to stop freedom of expression. But we kept going, yelling as if it was one voice \u201cYou took them alive, we want them alive\u201d. And what do we get now? Shallow news stating that new corpses are appearing in Guerrero. Corpses that are yet to be identified, corps that could be our students.At the end of the walk, we all gathered in one place, while a well known local activist talked in a microphone about our students, yelling their names and asking for justice. We had five minutes of silence and in that moment I wondered about our authorities. Were they ashamed? How could our president sleep at night knowing that hundreds were dying everyday? Not just 43, but thousands of mexicans dying in the hands of the federal police. I realized then what thousands of people wrote: Here, if we think, we disappear. If we speak, we die.Sent via Guardian Witness By Karen Hern\u00e1ndez  12 October 2014, 21:23 Karen continues \u201cI don\u2019t know if things will change, I want to believe that they will, I want to believe that our younger generations won\u2019t have to put up with this anymore. Unfortunately, in my country poverty reigns and the Mexican government takes advantage of this ... People need to be fearless you know? They need to stop being afraid of the \u2018what if\u2019, it feels like we live in a country where terror is the main law. A change is possible, and right now we have the ball in our court, so we better make the most of it.\u201dDuring the Cervantino Festival, students of the University of Guanajuato decided to march to demand justice for what happened to the young students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Juan Garc\u00eda  11 October 2014, 18:37 Juan adds \u201cLike a lot of people, I\u2019m just tired of all the crimes and the corruption of the Mexican government.\u201dEditorial note: Uploaded on behalf of the London Mexico Solidarity Group.London demonstration to demand the presentation of the disappeared students in Ayotzinapa.A week ago, the 2nd of October, about twenty people demonstrated outside the Mexican embassy in London to protest the murder and enforced disappearance of rural students in the Mexican state of Guerrero. In that occasion, a letter was delivered to the Mexican consul, who promised to give us a written response. As of 5:30 pm today (08-10-2014), 17 minutes before our action, we received an email from the Mexican embassy in which they repeat the official discourse according to which \u2018the federal government is taking care of the matter\u2019. About the whereabouts of the 43 disappeared students, nothing is said.On October 8th, at 5:30 pm, over 50 people, Mexican and several other nationalities, gathered around the embassy to join the over 80 solidarity demonstrations that where taking place all over the world, to demand the safe and sound presentation of the Ayotzinapa students.We read the statement prepared by the relatives of the students, which would be read in other demonstrations taking place today all over the world. The names of the disappeared students were read as well, followed by the shout: \u201cwe want them alive!\u201dDuring the last days, the Society of Mexican Students in the UK, the Mexican Society of University College London, and the Mexican Society of Oxford University published public statements in which they protested the events taking place in Mexico and demanded the safe and sound presentation of the dissappeared, as they also manifested their solidarity with their families.Zapatista Solidarity Network in the UKSent via Guardian Witness By RachelObordo  17 October 2014, 16:26 The member continues \u201cI am part of LMSG since one year ago, and we have been involved in the campaign against repression since we knew of the police attack against the students of Ayotzinapa. On 2 October, we had the first action about this problem. We are almost sure it was the first action for Ayotzinapa out of Mexico, and it had a very good reception in the most important media in Mexico. That day we gave a letter to the Mexican ambassador emphasizing that the disappearance of these students is not an isolated crime in Mexico, but only one of the expressions of impunity, corruption and violence that the federal government has guaranteed for itself and for the local governments.\u201d Mexico is in a permanent state of war. Only, its losses are unknown to the world. Since 2006 to date, around 400 mass graves have been found, with about four thousands dead people. The \"War against the drugs\", that took the army in the streets, has only been useful to repress social discomfort. The organized crime is thriving, and the \"side losses\" are ignored. But the Institute of statistics released this year a report highlighting the \"over-mortality\" of young men in Mexico due to violent death in Mexico. These are not isolated cases. It is a war against critical thinking, whereas political elites are sharing the profits with the organized crime. This is a narco-government.Sent via Guardian Witness By Emilia Reyes  10 October 2014, 3:54  Emilia adds \u201cI live in Mexico City, but I have been working with government officials in Guerrero. Guerrero is the area in which the Ayotzinapa events took place. In the past days the government officials of intermediate ranks were outraged by the situation and were supportive of people\u2019s demands. They know that the power structure in Mexico is feudal and even if they do their best efforts, they face everyday the challenges of our history. This is why it\u2019s so important to name those responsible and not leave it as if this is an a-historic massacre.\u201dProtestors sit around an improvised podium where student victims and missing names where remembered.Sent via Guardian Witness By zedconte  10 October 2014, 16:39 Zedconte adds \u201cThis is the first time I have demonstrated about this. I took part in this protest because I am fed up with the many authoritarian displays of the Mexican State, normally they go unpunished and unnoticed just to vanish into collective memory. I don\u2019t want us to forget these kids and what a horrible crime happened here.\u201dStudents and citizens of Guadalajara take part in a solidarity march for the missing students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Benjamin Palmer  9 October 2014, 21:59 Benjamin continues \u201cI wouldn\u2019t consider myself a hardened campaigner on any issue, but have marched in the past for various reasons: against the Iraq War for example, against austerity cuts and against violence in Mexico.\u201dYou can see all the contributions or submit your own via GuardianWitness. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico missing student protests: demonstrators share their perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-11-09T19:11:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A demonstration sparked by the Mexican government\u2019s announcement that 43 student teachers disappeared by police in the southern city of Iguala six weeks ago were probably massacred in a rubbish dump, ended at the weekend with masked protesters setting fire to the wooden door of the ceremonial presidential palace in Mexico City\u2019s main Z\u00f3calo plaza.The protesters broke away from the otherwise peaceful demonstration as it drew to a close, tearing down the protective metal fences set up around the palace at its imposing door before they set it on fire. Clashes with riot police followed before the square was cleared.Anger over the disappearance of the students, after they were attacked by municipal police in Iguala on 26 September, has been mounting in recent weeks. Protests have included large marches, and attacks on public buildings and bus stations.Over time the focus of the protests has moved from the demand for the students to be found to criticism of the government\u2019s handling of the investigation, which it took over from state authorities 10 days after the events.Many protesters in Mexico City carried handmade banners with the words Ya me cans\u00e9 (\u201cI\u2019ve Had Enough\u201d or \u201cI\u2019m Tired\u201d), in reference to a comment made by Mexico\u2019s attorney general, Jes\u00fas Murillo, at the end of the press conference on Friday.The phrase has been turned on its head to express public exhaustion with both the violence that has taken hold in many parts of Mexico, where organised criminal activity is protected by corrupt authorities, as well as the federal government\u2019s failure to act against it, which many believe underpins the events in Iguala.The US-based group Human Rights Watch has described the events in Iguala as the worst case of abuse to take place in Latin America in the past few decades. The organisation\u2019s Americas director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, said: \u201cThese killings and forced disappearances reflect a much broader pattern of abuse and are largely the consequence of the longstanding failure of Mexican authorities to address the problem.\u201dProtesters also chanted: \u201cIt was the state\u201d, in an effort to push home the message that the federal authorities have yet to accept the depth of the institutional crisis exposed by the apparent massacre.The march in the capital came in direct response to the government\u2019s announcement on Friday that its investigation has established that dozens of young people were massacred in a rubbish dump outside the town of Cocula, that borders Iguala.Murillo said it took place a few hours after municipal police arrested dozens of students in the city and handed them over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos. The mayor of Iguala had allegedly been in league with the gang since he took office two years ago.The students, from a radical teacher training college about two hours\u2019 drive away, were in Iguala to commandeer buses to use in a later protest.Murillo said the investigation has corroborated information given by arrested gang members who confessed to participating in the massacre, that the victims were incinerated in a huge funeral pyre that burned for 14 hours. He said the ashes and charred remains left after the fire burned itself out were collected in plastic bags and disposed of in a nearby river; some remains have now been retrieved.He said a laboratory in Austria has been contracted to try to identify the remains, as the Mexican authorities do not have the technological capacity to do so.Parents of the students have claimed the government wants to close the case. They have said they will continue to hope their children are alive until there is scientific evidence to the contrary.Before he cut the press conference short, Murillo dismissed a question about why neither soldiers nor federal police stationed in Iguala had intervened when the municipal police were attacking and arresting the students. \u201cIf the army had come out at that moment, who would they have supported?\u201d Murillo asked. \u201cObviously the answer would have been the legal authorities and it would have been a much bigger problem.\u201dSuch answers do not satisfy the protesters and international human rights groups who now regularly describe what happened to the students as a crime of state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Mexico: protests at admission that 43 missing students were massacred"},{"date": "2014-10-31T06:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Opened in 1907, this design classic recalls the opulence of turn-of-the-20th-century Mexico City. Replete with overstuffed furniture, oil paintings, and stained-glass ceilings, the lobby (which also doubles as a small museum) is remarkably well preserved, as is the adjoining atrium restaurant \u2013 filled with leafy plants and singing birds. Small, carpeted guestrooms show their age more readily than the common areas, with many boasting furnishings from when the hotel opened. Yet the rooms are well-priced, considering their history and the hotel has a fantastic location in the heart of the Zona Rosa. Though not as upscale as it was, this pretty neighbourhood is central, safe, and a major shopping and nightlife destination.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a372, +52 55 50 800 800, hotelgeneve.com.mxThe heart-of-it-all location, just a block from Mexico City\u2019s central plaza, is what most recommends the perennially popular Hotel Catedral, but this amiable spot is also fantastic value, with attractive, modern rooms kept immaculate by the friendly housekeepers \u2013 and equipped with air-conditioning, filtered water, and Wi-Fi. Some rooms have balconies and, better yet, views of the surrounding Centro Hist\u00f3rico. For the best vista, request a room on a higher floor overlooking the back of the city\u2019s Metropolitan Cathedral, or simply have a drink on the top-floor roof deck.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a338, +52 55 5518 5232, hotelcatedral.comThe ultra-chic, design-centric hoteliers behind the Habita and CondesaDF hotels recently opened Downtown Mexico, an upscale guesthouse in a 17th-century palace. Well-chosen furnishings highlight the high ceilings and original architectural details in each of the guestrooms, and though there\u2019s no lobby, the onsite shops and restaurants make the Downtown a destination in itself. It\u2019s worth a splurge to stay there, though savvy backpackers will head straight to the smartly designed hostel, Downtown Beds, on the ground floor of the same building. This is not your average dorm-style accommodation: there\u2019s a funky-cool aesthetic throughout the bedrooms, shared baths, and common areas, which include a patio bar and screening room. And guests at either establishment have access to the rooftop pool and lounge.\u2022 Downtown Mexico: doubles from \u00a3105, +52 55 5130 6830, downtownmexico.com. Downtown Beds: dorm beds from \u00a310, private doubles \u00a328 B&B +52 55 5282 2199, downtownbeds.comIn recent years, the rough-around-the-edges San Rafael neighbourhood has experienced a modest renaissance as young people, and galleries, move into the area\u2019s neglected 19th-century buildings. Here, amid car-repair shops and funky old coffee joints, you\u2019ll find the endearing, eco-friendly B&B, El Patio 77. It is in a beautifully restored mansion and has four suites with soaring ceilings, French windows, and light-filled bathrooms, tastefully decorated with craft and antiques. To save a few pesos, there are four equally charming and reasonably-priced rooms with shared bathroom. All rooms include a fresh-made breakfast in the breakfast room and gallery, where you\u2019re likely to find yourself chatting with the hotel\u2019s friendly owners.\u2022 Doubles with shared bath from \u00a356 B&B, suites from \u00a371 B&B, +52 55 5592 8452, elpatio77.comTo see a different side of Mexico City, stay at Casa de los Amigos; it\u2019s a Quaker-run nonprofit organisation and guesthouse that rents small private rooms and dorm beds by the night. Among other social activities, Casa de los Amigos does important work housing political refugees from around the world, so you may end up bunking with someone who has just come to Mexico from far away. Guests often get involved in projects at the house, or glean valuable city tips from the long-term volunteers, who also live onsite. There\u2019s a cosy shared kitchen that serves as an informal gathering spot, as well as a pretty, light-filled library, which is used for reading and weekly Quaker meetings.\u2022 Dorm beds \u00a35, private doubles from \u00a319 (suggested donation), +52 55 5705 0521, casadelosamigos.orgOne of Mexico City\u2019s central arteries, the Paseo de la Reforma is a monument-studded boulevard lined with banks, embassies, high-rise office buildings, and luxury hotels. Originally designed at the end of the 19th century, the avenue hasn\u2019t lost its grand appeal, even if it\u2019s now plagued by traffic. You can get a sense of the old grandeur at the Hotel Imperial Reforma, one of the most unique buildings on the avenue: its white, wedge-shaped facade and brass dome overlooking the bustle below. Long in operation, today it is a comfortable and well-located mid-range hotel, with dated yet surprisingly spacious guestrooms, many with desks and sitting areas.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a356, +52 55 5705 4911, hotelimperial.mxYou could almost imagine your life as a Mexico City local while staying at the Red Tree House, a warm B&B in a 1930s-era home in the Condesa district, one of the capital\u2019s most charming residential neighbourhoods. Here, it\u2019s easy to make yourself comfortable in the sweet, slightly whimsical bedrooms that open onto a serene, tree-filled courtyard. Friendliness and hospitality are the Red Tree House\u2019s hallmark: The staff make an effort to connect with their guests, while visitors frequently gather to chat over home-cooked breakfasts (included in the nightly price) or during complimentary wine service in the evenings.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a379 B&B, +52 55 5584 3829, theredtreehouse.comWith five rambling floors of intriguing, creaky guestrooms, Hotel Isabel has long been a favourite with budget travellers looking to make their pesos stretch without sacrificing a bit of old Mexican character. Rooms in this long-running establishment vary tremendously in size, furnishings, and comfort: some are spacious with draped windows and balconies; others are smaller, with interior windows and single beds (if the hotel isn\u2019t full, ask to see a few options when you check in). The service is bare bones but you\u2019ll want to spend most of your time outside anyway. Right in the heart of the Centro Hist\u00f3rico, Isabel is a perfect jumping-off point to explore Mexico City\u2019s oldest neighbourhood.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a324 B&B, +52 55 5518 1213, hotel-isabel.com.mxStep outside the Hotel Milan and you\u2019ll encounter literary types browsing fiction and philosophy at El P\u00e9ndulo bookshop to your left, while a hip crowd convenes at cocktail bar Limantour to your right. The hotel is on one of the most happening blocks on one of the most happening streets in the city. Inside, however, the hotel is pleasantly removed from the bustle, with recently renovated rooms that are small, clean, and modern. Some face the interior courtyard, while other, more atmospheric (though also noisier) rooms overlook Alvaro Obregon Avenue.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a333 B&B, +52 55 5584 0222, hotelmilan.com.mxThis comfortable hotel on the Roma district\u2019s main shopping and nightlife corridor is a step up from the many budget options in the area: there are wall-mounted flatscreen TVs, writing desks, and large bathrooms in all of the surprisingly spacious guestrooms, plus laundry service, Wi-Fi, plus a bar and restaurant. Don\u2019t expect a contemporary look \u2013 carpeted accommodation has dark, oversized wooden furniture and retro bedspreads \u2013 but comfort comes in spades for the price. Not to mention, the choice Roma location is perfect for foodies coming to explore the city\u2019s diverse dining scene.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a346 B&B, +52 55 5208 0052, stanzahotel.comAll prices include taxesJulie Doherty Meade is the author of Moon Mexico City and Moon Metro New York City ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Mexico City holidays", "Bed and breakfasts", "Budget travel", "Hostels", "City breaks", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 budget hotels and B&Bs in Mexico City"},{"date": "2014-10-16T13:47:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The students who studied at Ayotzinapa, a teacher training college in the state of Guerrero, south west Mexico, went missing on the night of 26 September. After taking part in a protest in the city of Iguala, about 120 miles south of Mexico city, the convoy of buses they were travelling home on came under fire from Iguala\u2019s municipal police. Subsequently a series of mass graves have been discovered just outside Iguala, though it\u2019s as yet unconfirmed whether they contain the bodies of the students. Since the disappearance, thousands of Mexicans have taken part in protests to demand action from the government, here are some of their perspectives. On October 8th, the streets of Guadalajara smelled like sorrow and anger; to some of us, it smelled like murder.When I heard about the students in Ayotzinapa I remember I was in shock because I thought that after the events of Tlatelolco and Atenco, Mexico wouldn\u2019t do it again. I hoped that the people who were supposed to protect us would finally do it. But in Mexico, under this government, hope just means eternal misery.That is the reason why I decided to walk, to join hundreds of people and fight for the students rights, for our rights. During the manifestation, I heard an elder woman yell \u201cWhy are they murdering them? If they are the future of Latin America\u201d That sentence stayed with me all the way to the end and I am sure it will stay forever, at least until my government proves that they were not, nor will be involved in any massacre.In my city, we were about two thousand people asking for a result, good or bad, we wanted answers. We were surrounded by the local police, who are naturally trained to stop freedom of expression. But we kept going, yelling as if it was one voice \u201cYou took them alive, we want them alive\u201d. And what do we get now? Shallow news stating that new corpses are appearing in Guerrero. Corpses that are yet to be identified, corps that could be our students.At the end of the walk, we all gathered in one place, while a well known local activist talked in a microphone about our students, yelling their names and asking for justice. We had five minutes of silence and in that moment I wondered about our authorities. Were they ashamed? How could our president sleep at night knowing that hundreds were dying everyday? Not just 43, but thousands of mexicans dying in the hands of the federal police. I realized then what thousands of people wrote: Here, if we think, we disappear. If we speak, we die.Sent via Guardian Witness By Karen Hern\u00e1ndez  12 October 2014, 21:23 Karen continues \u201cI don\u2019t know if things will change, I want to believe that they will, I want to believe that our younger generations won\u2019t have to put up with this anymore. Unfortunately, in my country poverty reigns and the Mexican government takes advantage of this ... People need to be fearless you know? They need to stop being afraid of the \u2018what if\u2019, it feels like we live in a country where terror is the main law. A change is possible, and right now we have the ball in our court, so we better make the most of it.\u201dDuring the Cervantino Festival, students of the University of Guanajuato decided to march to demand justice for what happened to the young students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Juan Garc\u00eda  11 October 2014, 18:37 Juan adds \u201cLike a lot of people, I\u2019m just tired of all the crimes and the corruption of the Mexican government.\u201dEditorial note: Uploaded on behalf of the London Mexico Solidarity Group.London demonstration to demand the presentation of the disappeared students in Ayotzinapa.A week ago, the 2nd of October, about twenty people demonstrated outside the Mexican embassy in London to protest the murder and enforced disappearance of rural students in the Mexican state of Guerrero. In that occasion, a letter was delivered to the Mexican consul, who promised to give us a written response. As of 5:30 pm today (08-10-2014), 17 minutes before our action, we received an email from the Mexican embassy in which they repeat the official discourse according to which \u2018the federal government is taking care of the matter\u2019. About the whereabouts of the 43 disappeared students, nothing is said.On October 8th, at 5:30 pm, over 50 people, Mexican and several other nationalities, gathered around the embassy to join the over 80 solidarity demonstrations that where taking place all over the world, to demand the safe and sound presentation of the Ayotzinapa students.We read the statement prepared by the relatives of the students, which would be read in other demonstrations taking place today all over the world. The names of the disappeared students were read as well, followed by the shout: \u201cwe want them alive!\u201dDuring the last days, the Society of Mexican Students in the UK, the Mexican Society of University College London, and the Mexican Society of Oxford University published public statements in which they protested the events taking place in Mexico and demanded the safe and sound presentation of the dissappeared, as they also manifested their solidarity with their families.Zapatista Solidarity Network in the UKSent via Guardian Witness By RachelObordo  17 October 2014, 16:26 The member continues \u201cI am part of LMSG since one year ago, and we have been involved in the campaign against repression since we knew of the police attack against the students of Ayotzinapa. On 2 October, we had the first action about this problem. We are almost sure it was the first action for Ayotzinapa out of Mexico, and it had a very good reception in the most important media in Mexico. That day we gave a letter to the Mexican ambassador emphasizing that the disappearance of these students is not an isolated crime in Mexico, but only one of the expressions of impunity, corruption and violence that the federal government has guaranteed for itself and for the local governments.\u201d Mexico is in a permanent state of war. Only, its losses are unknown to the world. Since 2006 to date, around 400 mass graves have been found, with about four thousands dead people. The \"War against the drugs\", that took the army in the streets, has only been useful to repress social discomfort. The organized crime is thriving, and the \"side losses\" are ignored. But the Institute of statistics released this year a report highlighting the \"over-mortality\" of young men in Mexico due to violent death in Mexico. These are not isolated cases. It is a war against critical thinking, whereas political elites are sharing the profits with the organized crime. This is a narco-government.Sent via Guardian Witness By Emilia Reyes  10 October 2014, 3:54  Emilia adds \u201cI live in Mexico City, but I have been working with government officials in Guerrero. Guerrero is the area in which the Ayotzinapa events took place. In the past days the government officials of intermediate ranks were outraged by the situation and were supportive of people\u2019s demands. They know that the power structure in Mexico is feudal and even if they do their best efforts, they face everyday the challenges of our history. This is why it\u2019s so important to name those responsible and not leave it as if this is an a-historic massacre.\u201dProtestors sit around an improvised podium where student victims and missing names where remembered.Sent via Guardian Witness By zedconte  10 October 2014, 16:39 Zedconte adds \u201cThis is the first time I have demonstrated about this. I took part in this protest because I am fed up with the many authoritarian displays of the Mexican State, normally they go unpunished and unnoticed just to vanish into collective memory. I don\u2019t want us to forget these kids and what a horrible crime happened here.\u201dStudents and citizens of Guadalajara take part in a solidarity march for the missing students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Benjamin Palmer  9 October 2014, 21:59 Benjamin continues \u201cI wouldn\u2019t consider myself a hardened campaigner on any issue, but have marched in the past for various reasons: against the Iraq War for example, against austerity cuts and against violence in Mexico.\u201dYou can see all the contributions or submit your own via GuardianWitness. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico missing student protests: demonstrators share their perspectives"},{"date": "2014-10-09T15:18:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Thousands of people have taken to the streets in cities across Mexico protesting against the disappearance of 43 student teachers from the southern state of Guerrero, nearly two weeks ago. The students went missing on 26 September after a convoy of buses they were travelling on came under fire. We\u2019d like to hear from Mexicans who\u2019ve taken part in the demonstrations. Share your pictures and stories and tell us how you\u2019d like the government to respond. We\u2019d also like to understand what the situation has been like in Mexico for you and your family and why the latest events have triggered a national protest. Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and welfare are most important \u2013 so please think about this when recording and again when sharing your content with us.You can share your photos, videos and stories by clicking on the blue \u2018contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019. We will use the most interesting contributions in our reporting. Nos gustar\u00eda o\u00edr de mexicanos que han participado en las protestas. Env\u00eda tus fotos e historias y cu\u00e9ntanos c\u00f3mo quieres que el gobierno responda. Tambi\u00e9n nos gustar\u00eda entender cu\u00e1l ha sido la situaci\u00f3n en M\u00e9xico para ti y tu familia, y por qu\u00e9 los \u00faltimos acontecimientos han desencadenado una protesta nacional. Aunque nos gustar\u00eda o\u00edr de ti, tu seguridad y bienestar son lo m\u00e1s importante \u2013 as\u00ed que por favor tenlo en cuenta cuando est\u00e9s grabando y de nuevo cuando est\u00e9s compartiendo tu contenido con nosotros.Puedes compartir tus fotos, v\u00eddeos e historias haciendo click en el bot\u00f3n azul \u201ccontribute\u201d en este art\u00edculo. Tambi\u00e9n puedes usar la aplicaci\u00f3n para smartphones GuardianWitness o entrar en la nueva app del Guardian y buscar \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d.Usaremos las contribuciones m\u00e1s interesantes en nuestra cobertura. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico missing students protests: share your photos and stories"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:22:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Your story (Mexico authorities knew about attack on students as it happened, 16 December) does not reflect the reality of the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican state of Guerrero and the ongoing investigations around this event. Without any other source of information than a story published in a Mexican magazine \u2013 on which the attorney general\u2019s office has already requested an appropriate rectification \u2013 the Guardian admits that it has not been\u00a0able to verify not only the alleged leaked government documents but the\u00a0magazine\u2019s account.The Mexican government is committed to a thorough transparent investigation, with the findings double-checked and assessed by different NGOs, independent groups and experts.Diego Gomez PickeringAmbassador of Mexico to the UK", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico is not covering up on disappearances | Letters: Diego Gomez Pickering, Ambassador of Mexico to the UK"},{"date": "2014-12-09T10:32:11Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When work began in 1967, Mexico City\u2019s metro system signified a dramatic modernisation of the cityscape. Making room for the metro meant clearing away some familiar aspects of the urban landscape, as well as introducing residents to the strange new spaces of the network\u2019s underground tunnels and stations. To integrate this new layer of urban infrastructure with the existing city\u2019s pre-Columbian, colonial, and contemporary layers, the authors of the subway relied on a pictographic system. Lance Wyman, a New York-based graphic designer, designed icons to identify each metro station. Instead of a name, this new geographic entity was visually connected to an existing historical or geographical feature. Thus the sign for Balderas station, where Line 1 met Line 3 in the historic centre, referenced a cannon on display in a library above-ground, while nearby Pino Suarez station was identified by the Aztec ruin that was uncovered (and destroyed) during excavations for the station.Wyman\u2019s pictorial system connected the surface to the subterranean. He created a visible match between the familiar spaces of the city, which were now connected to the new stations via street signs, and the far more abstract underground space of the metro system. In the dark tunnel, each pictograph would help the traveller to connect his or her location to familiar references above ground. With Mexico City\u2019s modernisation still a work in progress, the pictorial system also negotiated the fact that many of the system\u2019s new passengers could not read. Other wayfinding projects similarly use graphic elements to bring order and legibility to a chaotic system. Harry Beck\u2019s 1931 London Underground map turned the tube system into a diagram to make wayfinding easier irrespective of actual station locations. More abstract than Mexico\u2019s system but equally iconic, this map and others like it create a total image of the city that affords both a sense of pleasure and collectivity. Underground aside, street graphics have a much broader role in demarcating the functions of different urban spaces. We need only think of the stripes of white paint that turn a road into a crosswalk, bicycle lane or parking space.Ben Campkin is the author of Remaking London: Decline and Regeneration in Urban Culture (IB Tauris, 2013), director of UCL\u2019s Urban Laboratory, senior lecturer in the Bartlett School of Architecture and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Mariana Mogilevich is a historian of architecture and urbanism and Mellon Fellow in architecture, urbanism and the humanities at Princeton University.Rebecca Ross is a graphic and interaction designer and urban historian, senior lecturer at Central Saint Martins School of Art and Design and co-editor of Urban Pamphleteer.Find out more about the project at Picturing Place. Which other signs or pictures have shaped how we experience urban places around the world? Share an image that has influenced your city on Twitter using the hashtag #PicturingPlace", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico City holidays", "Design", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Photography", "Transport policy"], "title": "The symbolic simplicity of Mexico City's metro signs"},{"date": "2014-12-08T09:12:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Morocco and Mexico have both received over half a billion in finance (mostly in loans) from some of the world\u2019s major climate funds, according to a new report by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). The report analysed a decade of money going into nine national and two international funds set up to tackle climate change. Of the $7.6bn in funding that the ODI looked at, half of it was going to just ten countries.The chart below shows how much each country received in financing and how much of that was for mitigating the effects of climate change. However, the figures also shows that many countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate change are missing out on financing. Countries such as Namibia, El Salvador and Guatemala all received less than $5m each (fewer than 1/100th of what the top countries get). Some of the projects benefitting from the funds included a massive increase in Mexico\u2019s renewable energy capacity in a system previously powered by fossil fuels; the development of Morocco\u2019s solar energy resources and Brazil reforesting 3,000 hectares of land. Of the funds that they looked at, the UK pledged the most contributions of any country at $2.5bn, with the US giving $2.4bn. ODI research fellow and report author, Smita Nakhooda said: These start-up climate funds were pioneering in their approach, and a huge amount has been learnt from their experience. There are now too many small climate funding \u2018pots\u2019 with substantial overlap and finance is spread too thinly between them, creating an urgent need to learn from experience and improve the system. The lives of millions of people in poor countries affected by climate change depend on getting this right.Next year will see the roll out of a new green climate fund, which has already raised almost $10bn in seven months. This is more than these other schemes raised in a decade. ", "tags": ["World news", "Environment", "Climate change", "Morocco", "Mexico", "Africa", "Americas", "Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima"], "title": "Morocco and Mexico biggest beneficiaries of climate funds"},{"date": "2014-12-05T13:33:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A senior Mexican minister has described the disappearance and possible murder of 43 student teachers as a \u201cwake-up call\u201d for the country, but has rejected accusations that the government has been too focused on its economic agenda to tackle violent crime and corruption.The disappearance of the students 10 weeks ago in the southern city of Iguala \u2013 allegedly after corrupt municipal police handed them over to a local drug gang \u2013 has provoked protests across Mexico and led to a slump in the popularity of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto amid accusations that he has done little to address the country\u2019s security crisis.Juan Manuel G\u00f3mez Robledo, undersecretary for multilateral affairs and human rights at Mexico\u2019s foreign ministry, said the students\u2019 disappearance had strengthened the government\u2019s determination to root out corruption and fight drug gangs. \u201c[The disappearance] is a big challenge, but it does not mean we were not working on these issues before,\u201d he said. \u201cIt sounds a warning and tells the people, the government and the private sector that economic reforms will never bear their fruit if rule of law does not prevail.\u201dDespite the discovery of at least 38 bodies in mass graves near Iguala \u2013 and the official report that dozens of young people were killed and burned in a rubbish tip outside a neighbouring town \u2013 G\u00f3mez Robledo said the government was still treating the students\u2019 disappearance as a missing persons case.\u201cThe search continues, and no evidence has been released so far by the University of Innsbruck where the remains were sent to be examined,\u201d he said. \u201cAs the director of that institute said, it will take some time before they release any of the results of their investigation. Until then, we have to consider them to be missing, and the search continues. We are treating this as a case of forced disappearance.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo denied that the authorities had been too slow to respond, saying 79 people had been arrested in connection with the disappearances, including local police officers and Jos\u00e9 Luis Abarca, the former mayor of Iguala, and his wife Mar\u00eda de los Angeles Pineda. It has been alleged that the attack was ordered by Abarca, who thought the students were planning to interrupt a speech by Pineda, and was carried out by police working with the Guerreros Unidos cartel, for whom Pineda was an operative.G\u00f3mez Robledo argued that security had been central to President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s agenda since his election two years ago. He pointed to the recent creation of a 5,000-strong national gendarmerie, moves to limit the jurisdiction of military tribunals, and the introduction of a national code of criminal proceedings. The minister said the president had acknowledged the growing problem of kidnappings a year ago during a meeting of the national security council. \u201cHe recognised that we were not doing enough in terms of fighting kidnappings, because the more we are successful against the narco gangs, the more they go and specialise in other fields of criminal activity. In 2013, we saw a surge in kidnappings and extortions which are now peaking and declining. He said very clearly, \u2018We are not doing enough on that.\u2019\u201dAt the end of November, Pe\u00f1a Nieto responded to growing public anger by unveiling a 10-point package to address the vulnerability of local governments to infiltration by drug gangs \u2013 an issue perhaps highlighted by events in Iguala \u2013 and to strengthen his government\u2019s commitment to human rights. However, the package was dismissed by many security experts and human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch (HRW), as a simple rehash of previous plans and commitments.G\u00f3mez Robledo brushed off the criticism, saying the measures would allow the government to put serious political weight behind plans that had been devised in consultation with the UN and various NGOs. \u201cThey have become presidential initiatives,\u201d he said, \u201cbut where HRW is absolutely right is that it\u2019s not just a matter of making new laws, it\u2019s a matter of implementing them and of holding accountable those who do not respect them.\u201dWhile he conceded that far more work needed to be done to tackle corruption at a local level, the minister said the government was committed to being open about the findings of its investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re being transparent about what we are doing and what we\u2019re not doing, so all the Iguala investigations will be checked, reviewed and assessed by an independent group of experts we\u2019ve called in from the InterAmerican Commission on Human Rights.\u201d Asked whether Pe\u00f1a Nieto \u2013 whose approval rating recently plunged to 39% \u2013 had the support and strength needed to address the security crisis, G\u00f3mez Robledo said: \u201cHe has the intelligence, the conviction, the strength and the youth to face all of the challenges. He has four years ahead of him, which is a lot of time if you want to do things \u2013 it\u2019s the equivalent of a presidential term in the US.\u201dG\u00f3mez Robledo said thatevents in Iguala and the public fury that followed show that Mexico remains deeply divided by inequality, of which grotesqueviolence is a symptom.\u201cThis proves that there are too many Mexicos living side by side without always connecting,\u201d he said. \u201cYou have a very prosperous and competitive Mexico where more engineers graduate each year than in many countries and where you have a booming aerospace industry. But you also have a very, very poor Mexico \u2013 especially in the south and south-east \u2013 where people have no hope of a better life. And that creates a class of hopeless people who are ready to do anything just to live. That fuels organised crime and a violence that is very disturbing.\u201d", "tags": ["Governance", "Global development", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Mexico", "Americas", "Drugs trade", "Human rights"], "title": "Mexico government denies neglecting corruption amid missing students fury"},{"date": "2014-11-09T19:11:49Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A demonstration sparked by the Mexican government\u2019s announcement that 43 student teachers disappeared by police in the southern city of Iguala six weeks ago were probably massacred in a rubbish dump, ended at the weekend with masked protesters setting fire to the wooden door of the ceremonial presidential palace in Mexico City\u2019s main Z\u00f3calo plaza.The protesters broke away from the otherwise peaceful demonstration as it drew to a close, tearing down the protective metal fences set up around the palace at its imposing door before they set it on fire. Clashes with riot police followed before the square was cleared.Anger over the disappearance of the students, after they were attacked by municipal police in Iguala on 26 September, has been mounting in recent weeks. Protests have included large marches, and attacks on public buildings and bus stations.Over time the focus of the protests has moved from the demand for the students to be found to criticism of the government\u2019s handling of the investigation, which it took over from state authorities 10 days after the events.Many protesters in Mexico City carried handmade banners with the words Ya me cans\u00e9 (\u201cI\u2019ve Had Enough\u201d or \u201cI\u2019m Tired\u201d), in reference to a comment made by Mexico\u2019s attorney general, Jes\u00fas Murillo, at the end of the press conference on Friday.The phrase has been turned on its head to express public exhaustion with both the violence that has taken hold in many parts of Mexico, where organised criminal activity is protected by corrupt authorities, as well as the federal government\u2019s failure to act against it, which many believe underpins the events in Iguala.The US-based group Human Rights Watch has described the events in Iguala as the worst case of abuse to take place in Latin America in the past few decades. The organisation\u2019s Americas director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, said: \u201cThese killings and forced disappearances reflect a much broader pattern of abuse and are largely the consequence of the longstanding failure of Mexican authorities to address the problem.\u201dProtesters also chanted: \u201cIt was the state\u201d, in an effort to push home the message that the federal authorities have yet to accept the depth of the institutional crisis exposed by the apparent massacre.The march in the capital came in direct response to the government\u2019s announcement on Friday that its investigation has established that dozens of young people were massacred in a rubbish dump outside the town of Cocula, that borders Iguala.Murillo said it took place a few hours after municipal police arrested dozens of students in the city and handed them over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos. The mayor of Iguala had allegedly been in league with the gang since he took office two years ago.The students, from a radical teacher training college about two hours\u2019 drive away, were in Iguala to commandeer buses to use in a later protest.Murillo said the investigation has corroborated information given by arrested gang members who confessed to participating in the massacre, that the victims were incinerated in a huge funeral pyre that burned for 14 hours. He said the ashes and charred remains left after the fire burned itself out were collected in plastic bags and disposed of in a nearby river; some remains have now been retrieved.He said a laboratory in Austria has been contracted to try to identify the remains, as the Mexican authorities do not have the technological capacity to do so.Parents of the students have claimed the government wants to close the case. They have said they will continue to hope their children are alive until there is scientific evidence to the contrary.Before he cut the press conference short, Murillo dismissed a question about why neither soldiers nor federal police stationed in Iguala had intervened when the municipal police were attacking and arresting the students. \u201cIf the army had come out at that moment, who would they have supported?\u201d Murillo asked. \u201cObviously the answer would have been the legal authorities and it would have been a much bigger problem.\u201dSuch answers do not satisfy the protesters and international human rights groups who now regularly describe what happened to the students as a crime of state.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Mexico: protests at admission that 43 missing students were massacred"},{"date": "2014-10-31T06:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Opened in 1907, this design classic recalls the opulence of turn-of-the-20th-century Mexico City. Replete with overstuffed furniture, oil paintings, and stained-glass ceilings, the lobby (which also doubles as a small museum) is remarkably well preserved, as is the adjoining atrium restaurant \u2013 filled with leafy plants and singing birds. Small, carpeted guestrooms show their age more readily than the common areas, with many boasting furnishings from when the hotel opened. Yet the rooms are well-priced, considering their history and the hotel has a fantastic location in the heart of the Zona Rosa. Though not as upscale as it was, this pretty neighbourhood is central, safe, and a major shopping and nightlife destination.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a372, +52 55 50 800 800, hotelgeneve.com.mxThe heart-of-it-all location, just a block from Mexico City\u2019s central plaza, is what most recommends the perennially popular Hotel Catedral, but this amiable spot is also fantastic value, with attractive, modern rooms kept immaculate by the friendly housekeepers \u2013 and equipped with air-conditioning, filtered water, and Wi-Fi. Some rooms have balconies and, better yet, views of the surrounding Centro Hist\u00f3rico. For the best vista, request a room on a higher floor overlooking the back of the city\u2019s Metropolitan Cathedral, or simply have a drink on the top-floor roof deck.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a338, +52 55 5518 5232, hotelcatedral.comThe ultra-chic, design-centric hoteliers behind the Habita and CondesaDF hotels recently opened Downtown Mexico, an upscale guesthouse in a 17th-century palace. Well-chosen furnishings highlight the high ceilings and original architectural details in each of the guestrooms, and though there\u2019s no lobby, the onsite shops and restaurants make the Downtown a destination in itself. It\u2019s worth a splurge to stay there, though savvy backpackers will head straight to the smartly designed hostel, Downtown Beds, on the ground floor of the same building. This is not your average dorm-style accommodation: there\u2019s a funky-cool aesthetic throughout the bedrooms, shared baths, and common areas, which include a patio bar and screening room. And guests at either establishment have access to the rooftop pool and lounge.\u2022 Downtown Mexico: doubles from \u00a3105, +52 55 5130 6830, downtownmexico.com. Downtown Beds: dorm beds from \u00a310, private doubles \u00a328 B&B +52 55 5282 2199, downtownbeds.comIn recent years, the rough-around-the-edges San Rafael neighbourhood has experienced a modest renaissance as young people, and galleries, move into the area\u2019s neglected 19th-century buildings. Here, amid car-repair shops and funky old coffee joints, you\u2019ll find the endearing, eco-friendly B&B, El Patio 77. It is in a beautifully restored mansion and has four suites with soaring ceilings, French windows, and light-filled bathrooms, tastefully decorated with craft and antiques. To save a few pesos, there are four equally charming and reasonably-priced rooms with shared bathroom. All rooms include a fresh-made breakfast in the breakfast room and gallery, where you\u2019re likely to find yourself chatting with the hotel\u2019s friendly owners.\u2022 Doubles with shared bath from \u00a356 B&B, suites from \u00a371 B&B, +52 55 5592 8452, elpatio77.comTo see a different side of Mexico City, stay at Casa de los Amigos; it\u2019s a Quaker-run nonprofit organisation and guesthouse that rents small private rooms and dorm beds by the night. Among other social activities, Casa de los Amigos does important work housing political refugees from around the world, so you may end up bunking with someone who has just come to Mexico from far away. Guests often get involved in projects at the house, or glean valuable city tips from the long-term volunteers, who also live onsite. There\u2019s a cosy shared kitchen that serves as an informal gathering spot, as well as a pretty, light-filled library, which is used for reading and weekly Quaker meetings.\u2022 Dorm beds \u00a35, private doubles from \u00a319 (suggested donation), +52 55 5705 0521, casadelosamigos.orgOne of Mexico City\u2019s central arteries, the Paseo de la Reforma is a monument-studded boulevard lined with banks, embassies, high-rise office buildings, and luxury hotels. Originally designed at the end of the 19th century, the avenue hasn\u2019t lost its grand appeal, even if it\u2019s now plagued by traffic. You can get a sense of the old grandeur at the Hotel Imperial Reforma, one of the most unique buildings on the avenue: its white, wedge-shaped facade and brass dome overlooking the bustle below. Long in operation, today it is a comfortable and well-located mid-range hotel, with dated yet surprisingly spacious guestrooms, many with desks and sitting areas.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a356, +52 55 5705 4911, hotelimperial.mxYou could almost imagine your life as a Mexico City local while staying at the Red Tree House, a warm B&B in a 1930s-era home in the Condesa district, one of the capital\u2019s most charming residential neighbourhoods. Here, it\u2019s easy to make yourself comfortable in the sweet, slightly whimsical bedrooms that open onto a serene, tree-filled courtyard. Friendliness and hospitality are the Red Tree House\u2019s hallmark: The staff make an effort to connect with their guests, while visitors frequently gather to chat over home-cooked breakfasts (included in the nightly price) or during complimentary wine service in the evenings.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a379 B&B, +52 55 5584 3829, theredtreehouse.comWith five rambling floors of intriguing, creaky guestrooms, Hotel Isabel has long been a favourite with budget travellers looking to make their pesos stretch without sacrificing a bit of old Mexican character. Rooms in this long-running establishment vary tremendously in size, furnishings, and comfort: some are spacious with draped windows and balconies; others are smaller, with interior windows and single beds (if the hotel isn\u2019t full, ask to see a few options when you check in). The service is bare bones but you\u2019ll want to spend most of your time outside anyway. Right in the heart of the Centro Hist\u00f3rico, Isabel is a perfect jumping-off point to explore Mexico City\u2019s oldest neighbourhood.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a324 B&B, +52 55 5518 1213, hotel-isabel.com.mxStep outside the Hotel Milan and you\u2019ll encounter literary types browsing fiction and philosophy at El P\u00e9ndulo bookshop to your left, while a hip crowd convenes at cocktail bar Limantour to your right. The hotel is on one of the most happening blocks on one of the most happening streets in the city. Inside, however, the hotel is pleasantly removed from the bustle, with recently renovated rooms that are small, clean, and modern. Some face the interior courtyard, while other, more atmospheric (though also noisier) rooms overlook Alvaro Obregon Avenue.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a333 B&B, +52 55 5584 0222, hotelmilan.com.mxThis comfortable hotel on the Roma district\u2019s main shopping and nightlife corridor is a step up from the many budget options in the area: there are wall-mounted flatscreen TVs, writing desks, and large bathrooms in all of the surprisingly spacious guestrooms, plus laundry service, Wi-Fi, plus a bar and restaurant. Don\u2019t expect a contemporary look \u2013 carpeted accommodation has dark, oversized wooden furniture and retro bedspreads \u2013 but comfort comes in spades for the price. Not to mention, the choice Roma location is perfect for foodies coming to explore the city\u2019s diverse dining scene.\u2022 Doubles from \u00a346 B&B, +52 55 5208 0052, stanzahotel.comAll prices include taxesJulie Doherty Meade is the author of Moon Mexico City and Moon Metro New York City ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Mexico City holidays", "Bed and breakfasts", "Budget travel", "Hostels", "City breaks", "Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 budget hotels and B&Bs in Mexico City"},{"date": "2014-10-16T13:47:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The students who studied at Ayotzinapa, a teacher training college in the state of Guerrero, south west Mexico, went missing on the night of 26 September. After taking part in a protest in the city of Iguala, about 120 miles south of Mexico city, the convoy of buses they were travelling home on came under fire from Iguala\u2019s municipal police. Subsequently a series of mass graves have been discovered just outside Iguala, though it\u2019s as yet unconfirmed whether they contain the bodies of the students. Since the disappearance, thousands of Mexicans have taken part in protests to demand action from the government, here are some of their perspectives. On October 8th, the streets of Guadalajara smelled like sorrow and anger; to some of us, it smelled like murder.When I heard about the students in Ayotzinapa I remember I was in shock because I thought that after the events of Tlatelolco and Atenco, Mexico wouldn\u2019t do it again. I hoped that the people who were supposed to protect us would finally do it. But in Mexico, under this government, hope just means eternal misery.That is the reason why I decided to walk, to join hundreds of people and fight for the students rights, for our rights. During the manifestation, I heard an elder woman yell \u201cWhy are they murdering them? If they are the future of Latin America\u201d That sentence stayed with me all the way to the end and I am sure it will stay forever, at least until my government proves that they were not, nor will be involved in any massacre.In my city, we were about two thousand people asking for a result, good or bad, we wanted answers. We were surrounded by the local police, who are naturally trained to stop freedom of expression. But we kept going, yelling as if it was one voice \u201cYou took them alive, we want them alive\u201d. And what do we get now? Shallow news stating that new corpses are appearing in Guerrero. Corpses that are yet to be identified, corps that could be our students.At the end of the walk, we all gathered in one place, while a well known local activist talked in a microphone about our students, yelling their names and asking for justice. We had five minutes of silence and in that moment I wondered about our authorities. Were they ashamed? How could our president sleep at night knowing that hundreds were dying everyday? Not just 43, but thousands of mexicans dying in the hands of the federal police. I realized then what thousands of people wrote: Here, if we think, we disappear. If we speak, we die.Sent via Guardian Witness By Karen Hern\u00e1ndez  12 October 2014, 21:23 Karen continues \u201cI don\u2019t know if things will change, I want to believe that they will, I want to believe that our younger generations won\u2019t have to put up with this anymore. Unfortunately, in my country poverty reigns and the Mexican government takes advantage of this ... People need to be fearless you know? They need to stop being afraid of the \u2018what if\u2019, it feels like we live in a country where terror is the main law. A change is possible, and right now we have the ball in our court, so we better make the most of it.\u201dDuring the Cervantino Festival, students of the University of Guanajuato decided to march to demand justice for what happened to the young students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Juan Garc\u00eda  11 October 2014, 18:37 Juan adds \u201cLike a lot of people, I\u2019m just tired of all the crimes and the corruption of the Mexican government.\u201dEditorial note: Uploaded on behalf of the London Mexico Solidarity Group.London demonstration to demand the presentation of the disappeared students in Ayotzinapa.A week ago, the 2nd of October, about twenty people demonstrated outside the Mexican embassy in London to protest the murder and enforced disappearance of rural students in the Mexican state of Guerrero. In that occasion, a letter was delivered to the Mexican consul, who promised to give us a written response. As of 5:30 pm today (08-10-2014), 17 minutes before our action, we received an email from the Mexican embassy in which they repeat the official discourse according to which \u2018the federal government is taking care of the matter\u2019. About the whereabouts of the 43 disappeared students, nothing is said.On October 8th, at 5:30 pm, over 50 people, Mexican and several other nationalities, gathered around the embassy to join the over 80 solidarity demonstrations that where taking place all over the world, to demand the safe and sound presentation of the Ayotzinapa students.We read the statement prepared by the relatives of the students, which would be read in other demonstrations taking place today all over the world. The names of the disappeared students were read as well, followed by the shout: \u201cwe want them alive!\u201dDuring the last days, the Society of Mexican Students in the UK, the Mexican Society of University College London, and the Mexican Society of Oxford University published public statements in which they protested the events taking place in Mexico and demanded the safe and sound presentation of the dissappeared, as they also manifested their solidarity with their families.Zapatista Solidarity Network in the UKSent via Guardian Witness By RachelObordo  17 October 2014, 16:26 The member continues \u201cI am part of LMSG since one year ago, and we have been involved in the campaign against repression since we knew of the police attack against the students of Ayotzinapa. On 2 October, we had the first action about this problem. We are almost sure it was the first action for Ayotzinapa out of Mexico, and it had a very good reception in the most important media in Mexico. That day we gave a letter to the Mexican ambassador emphasizing that the disappearance of these students is not an isolated crime in Mexico, but only one of the expressions of impunity, corruption and violence that the federal government has guaranteed for itself and for the local governments.\u201d Mexico is in a permanent state of war. Only, its losses are unknown to the world. Since 2006 to date, around 400 mass graves have been found, with about four thousands dead people. The \"War against the drugs\", that took the army in the streets, has only been useful to repress social discomfort. The organized crime is thriving, and the \"side losses\" are ignored. But the Institute of statistics released this year a report highlighting the \"over-mortality\" of young men in Mexico due to violent death in Mexico. These are not isolated cases. It is a war against critical thinking, whereas political elites are sharing the profits with the organized crime. This is a narco-government.Sent via Guardian Witness By Emilia Reyes  10 October 2014, 3:54  Emilia adds \u201cI live in Mexico City, but I have been working with government officials in Guerrero. Guerrero is the area in which the Ayotzinapa events took place. In the past days the government officials of intermediate ranks were outraged by the situation and were supportive of people\u2019s demands. They know that the power structure in Mexico is feudal and even if they do their best efforts, they face everyday the challenges of our history. This is why it\u2019s so important to name those responsible and not leave it as if this is an a-historic massacre.\u201dProtestors sit around an improvised podium where student victims and missing names where remembered.Sent via Guardian Witness By zedconte  10 October 2014, 16:39 Zedconte adds \u201cThis is the first time I have demonstrated about this. I took part in this protest because I am fed up with the many authoritarian displays of the Mexican State, normally they go unpunished and unnoticed just to vanish into collective memory. I don\u2019t want us to forget these kids and what a horrible crime happened here.\u201dStudents and citizens of Guadalajara take part in a solidarity march for the missing students of Ayotzinapa.Sent via Guardian Witness By Benjamin Palmer  9 October 2014, 21:59 Benjamin continues \u201cI wouldn\u2019t consider myself a hardened campaigner on any issue, but have marched in the past for various reasons: against the Iraq War for example, against austerity cuts and against violence in Mexico.\u201dYou can see all the contributions or submit your own via GuardianWitness. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico missing student protests: demonstrators share their perspectives"},{"date": "2014-10-09T15:18:54Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Thousands of people have taken to the streets in cities across Mexico protesting against the disappearance of 43 student teachers from the southern state of Guerrero, nearly two weeks ago. The students went missing on 26 September after a convoy of buses they were travelling on came under fire. We\u2019d like to hear from Mexicans who\u2019ve taken part in the demonstrations. Share your pictures and stories and tell us how you\u2019d like the government to respond. We\u2019d also like to understand what the situation has been like in Mexico for you and your family and why the latest events have triggered a national protest. Though we\u2019d like to hear from you, your safety and welfare are most important \u2013 so please think about this when recording and again when sharing your content with us.You can share your photos, videos and stories by clicking on the blue \u2018contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019. We will use the most interesting contributions in our reporting. Nos gustar\u00eda o\u00edr de mexicanos que han participado en las protestas. Env\u00eda tus fotos e historias y cu\u00e9ntanos c\u00f3mo quieres que el gobierno responda. Tambi\u00e9n nos gustar\u00eda entender cu\u00e1l ha sido la situaci\u00f3n en M\u00e9xico para ti y tu familia, y por qu\u00e9 los \u00faltimos acontecimientos han desencadenado una protesta nacional. Aunque nos gustar\u00eda o\u00edr de ti, tu seguridad y bienestar son lo m\u00e1s importante \u2013 as\u00ed que por favor tenlo en cuenta cuando est\u00e9s grabando y de nuevo cuando est\u00e9s compartiendo tu contenido con nosotros.Puedes compartir tus fotos, v\u00eddeos e historias haciendo click en el bot\u00f3n azul \u201ccontribute\u201d en este art\u00edculo. Tambi\u00e9n puedes usar la aplicaci\u00f3n para smartphones GuardianWitness o entrar en la nueva app del Guardian y buscar \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d.Usaremos las contribuciones m\u00e1s interesantes en nuestra cobertura. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico missing students protests: share your photos and stories"},{"date": "2014-10-08T12:59:50Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The terrible wave of violence gripping Mexico is back in the news, with the discovery of a mass grave holding 28 bodies in the city of Iguala, Guerrero. The bodies were dismembered and burnt to such an extent that Mexican officials believe it will take up to two months to formally identify them, but there is speculation that they could be those of students, 43 in total, who went missing on 26 September.The students had clashed with police as they solicited donations to fund a protest against cuts to their state-funded school. At least six students and bystanders were killed, and prosecutors arrested 22 police officers after witnesses accused them of handing the students over to a gang to be executed. The mayor and police chief of Iguala are now on the run after being subpoenaed in the case, though it\u2019s still unclear whether the mass grave and the missing students are connected.Mexico is a country accustomed to astonishing levels of violence and endemic corruption. During Felipe Calder\u00f3n\u2019s presidency (2006-2012), 60,000 people were killed and 150,000 displaced as a result of drug-related violence, with 98% of all crimes going unpunished. But even by these standards, the discovery of the mass grave and its possible link to the missing students is shocking, in part because of the extent of alleged subservience of the authorities to criminal gangs, and also because the students are innocents with no criminal connections. Mexico\u2019s current president, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, says he is \u201cdismayed and perplexed\u201d by the discovery of the mass grave. It\u2019s likely he will feel a lot worse if it transpires the bodies are indeed those of the missing students, especially as Mexicans are now preparing for nationwide protests in response to the students\u2019 disappearances.The horror of the mass grave and the missing students must be seen in the context of Mexico\u2019s war on drugs. Calder\u00f3n advocated a predominantly military response to the drug war, which led to high levels of support and political impunity for Mexico\u2019s security services, which then went on to commit exactly the kinds of atrocities that appear to have been carried out against the missing students.When Pe\u00f1a Nieto was elected, he promised a less military approach, but he has failed to seriously depart from his predecessor\u2019s policies. This insistence on responding to the drug war militarily is ludicrous. At root its causes \u2013 both in Mexico and Latin America as a whole \u2013 are social: namely inequality, poverty and mass unemployment. According to the social development agency Coneval, half of Mexico\u2019s population lives in poverty. Nevertheless, the country\u2019s militaristic response to the drug war is encouraged by US foreign policy, namely in the form of the Merida Initiative\u201d, a regional security cooperation agreement that supplies Mexico with $1.9bn of military aid.Grace Livingstone, author of America\u2019s Backyard, says: \u201cIn the name of fighting the so-called war on drugs, the US has poured millions of dollars worth of military aid into Mexico, militarising the society and strengthening the armed forces, which already had a poor record on human rights and were notorious for persecuting social activists including students, trade unions and peasant campaigners.\u201dA 2011 documentary for al-Jazeera even went so far as to suggest that the drug war is used by the Mexican security services as simply a pretext for oppressing those who attempt to campaign for social justice. Earlier this year, the Washington Office for Latin America criticised the Mexican government for dragging its heels over the protection of human rights defenders and journalists.It is undeniable that the US dishes out extravagant amounts of military aid to Mexico with a scandalous lack of oversight as to how it is used. According to Amnesty International: \u201cIn August [2012], despite the failure of Mexican authorities to meet human rights conditions set by the US Congress as part of the Merida initiative, the US State Department recommended that Congress release the 15% of funds subject to the conditions.\u201d This aid may have since been spent on equipment and training of the same security services that prosecutors are now accusing of the extrajudicial execution of students, many of whom are teenagers.The US must learn serious lessons about its relationship with Mexico and ask the country to make a genuine commitment to tackling human rights violations and the excruciating inequality that is fomenting the drug war. Moreover, the Americas must follow the progressive lead of countries such as Uruguay and Bolivia in exploring alternatives to a military response to the war on drugs, which has been an unmitigated failure of violence, corruption and oppression.Soon there will be 43 Mexican families who have to live with the knowledge that their loved one was unearthed in a mass grave. We owe it to them to be honest about the factors that put them there.", "tags": ["Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Americas", "Drugs trade"], "title": "The US may have blood on its hands in Mexico | Ellie Mae O\u2019Hagan"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-03-22T07:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Elisa Guerra is a teacher at Colegio Valle de Filadelfia in Mexico. She set up the school in 2004 and this year is opening two new institutions in Brazil and Costa Rica.   I originally wanted to be a writer and studied Hispanic literature in college. My father lost his job so I was only able to stay for one term. I had to leave to help support my family. For a couple of years I was a model. My mum owned a clothes shop and I used to be in her fashion shows. That led to work in magazines and commercials. It was fun for a 19-year-old, but had little meaning. I didn\u2019t want to be on the cover of a magazine because of my looks, I wanted to be there because of something I\u2019d done.Having children inspired me to become a teacher. In my twenties I got married and had children \u2013 they\u2019re now aged 12, 17 and 20. At first I was a stay-at-home mum and I had all of this time with my son. I wanted it to be joyful and for him to love books like I do, so I began teaching him. I started reading everything I could find on education and took a course in Philadelphia, US, at the Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential. It\u2019s an amazing international organisation that specialises in working with children with brain damage as well as those who are healthy. It taught me about brain development and how to create the right environment for learning. After I completed the course, I started volunteering with the organisation. I now run their office for Latin America and teach parents about child development. A lot of it is about helping families realise that all is not lost and that their kids can learn to do many things. When I looked for a pre-school for my children there was nowhere I liked, so I created one myself. The places in my city were very traditional. My eldest son attended one for a while, and although he enjoyed parts of it, he kept saying, \u201cI get bored, we do the same things every day\u201d.I got together with a friend and we rented a house. My father was back in work and he gave me $2,000 (\u00a31,341) to help with costs. At the beginning we weren\u2019t earning, but then the school grew and after a few years we had 100 students. Five years later my friend and I went our separate ways, as we had different views on how the project should develop.In 2004, I sold my car for $15,000 (\u00a310,064) and set up another school. For the first year it was tough, because I was doing everything \u2013 acting as the principal, answering the phones, teaching classes, and being a mum. My husband wasn\u2019t helpful, and I\u2019m a single mother now. This made me realise that I had to make things happen for the project and my family \u2013 I support everyone now on my income. And I was very lucky because I got to go to work every day with my kids in tow. I know that most people can\u2019t do that. My children have been a huge part of the project. The pre-school has grown to 164 students and we go up to ninth grade now. It\u2019s a private school, and our students are mainly middle class, but we offer scholarships.In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them.This year we\u2019re opening schools in Costa Rica and Brazil, and I have schools in four other Mexican cities. I never intended to set up places elsewhere, but a mum and pre-school teacher who sent her son to my original school moved to another city and asked if we could open something there. I didn\u2019t have the money, so we came up with a franchise model. It\u2019s still very personal though, the directors own the school but I train the teachers and visit when I can. The other schools have stemmed from people approaching me.The model the schools are based on is focused on ensuring students explore a wide range of subjects and have the space to pursue their interests. We follow the national curriculum, but we have an enrichment curriculum on top of that. It covers art and music, and each month we look at a different country in detail. Teaching children about diversity is important and the textbooks I\u2019ve written always include an element of learning about other ways of life. I started writing them because I didn\u2019t think the ones available in Mexico were challenging enough. It was a long journey to getting published, I started out printing them for students on a Xerox machine until the publisher Pearson took them on.I recently travelled to schools in China, Japan and South Korea as part of a research project. They have a great respect for teachers in these countries, which we don\u2019t have in Mexico. The climate here isn\u2019t very good; teachers tend to be seen as lazy or troublemakers. People who go on protests are viewed particularly negatively. In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them. No bodies have been found, but we presume that they\u2019re dead. The media has reported that the authorities paid the local drug cartel to kill them. I love my country, but we have a saying, \u201cYou hurt me, Mexico\u201d. It is very painful to see what is happening because of corruption. I don\u2019t know why the profession isn\u2019t valued. I remember interviewing a girl fresh out of college for a position. She wanted to be a teacher because she said she was looking for something \u201ceasy and not stressful\u201d to do. That\u2019s the last thing she\u2019d find in the profession. There\u2019s no easy way to change things, but it has to start with teacher training. I\u2019ve never been formally trained, but my country introduced a programme that was a real blessing for me. If you have five years experience teaching, but don\u2019t have a degree in education, then you can take a national exam to gain a certificate. I ranked first in the country and was able to do a masters in education. Many of my colleagues have been formally trained, though, and I know that courses are very poor. They focus a lot on theory and very little on what it means to teach. We can only really change things by showing respect for the profession and improving training.", "tags": ["Teacher Network", "Education", "Professional development", "Australian education", "US education", "Teaching", "Primary schools", "Secondary schools", "Schools", "Private schools"], "title": "Mexican teachers are not respected \u2013 but we can create a better future"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-03-22T07:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Elisa Guerra is a teacher at Colegio Valle de Filadelfia in Mexico. She set up the school in 2004 and this year is opening two new institutions in Brazil and Costa Rica.   I originally wanted to be a writer and studied Hispanic literature in college. My father lost his job so I was only able to stay for one term. I had to leave to help support my family. For a couple of years I was a model. My mum owned a clothes shop and I used to be in her fashion shows. That led to work in magazines and commercials. It was fun for a 19-year-old, but had little meaning. I didn\u2019t want to be on the cover of a magazine because of my looks, I wanted to be there because of something I\u2019d done.Having children inspired me to become a teacher. In my twenties I got married and had children \u2013 they\u2019re now aged 12, 17 and 20. At first I was a stay-at-home mum and I had all of this time with my son. I wanted it to be joyful and for him to love books like I do, so I began teaching him. I started reading everything I could find on education and took a course in Philadelphia, US, at the Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential. It\u2019s an amazing international organisation that specialises in working with children with brain damage as well as those who are healthy. It taught me about brain development and how to create the right environment for learning. After I completed the course, I started volunteering with the organisation. I now run their office for Latin America and teach parents about child development. A lot of it is about helping families realise that all is not lost and that their kids can learn to do many things. When I looked for a pre-school for my children there was nowhere I liked, so I created one myself. The places in my city were very traditional. My eldest son attended one for a while, and although he enjoyed parts of it, he kept saying, \u201cI get bored, we do the same things every day\u201d.I got together with a friend and we rented a house. My father was back in work and he gave me $2,000 (\u00a31,341) to help with costs. At the beginning we weren\u2019t earning, but then the school grew and after a few years we had 100 students. Five years later my friend and I went our separate ways, as we had different views on how the project should develop.In 2004, I sold my car for $15,000 (\u00a310,064) and set up another school. For the first year it was tough, because I was doing everything \u2013 acting as the principal, answering the phones, teaching classes, and being a mum. My husband wasn\u2019t helpful, and I\u2019m a single mother now. This made me realise that I had to make things happen for the project and my family \u2013 I support everyone now on my income. And I was very lucky because I got to go to work every day with my kids in tow. I know that most people can\u2019t do that. My children have been a huge part of the project. The pre-school has grown to 164 students and we go up to ninth grade now. It\u2019s a private school, and our students are mainly middle class, but we offer scholarships.In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them.This year we\u2019re opening schools in Costa Rica and Brazil, and I have schools in four other Mexican cities. I never intended to set up places elsewhere, but a mum and pre-school teacher who sent her son to my original school moved to another city and asked if we could open something there. I didn\u2019t have the money, so we came up with a franchise model. It\u2019s still very personal though, the directors own the school but I train the teachers and visit when I can. The other schools have stemmed from people approaching me.The model the schools are based on is focused on ensuring students explore a wide range of subjects and have the space to pursue their interests. We follow the national curriculum, but we have an enrichment curriculum on top of that. It covers art and music, and each month we look at a different country in detail. Teaching children about diversity is important and the textbooks I\u2019ve written always include an element of learning about other ways of life. I started writing them because I didn\u2019t think the ones available in Mexico were challenging enough. It was a long journey to getting published, I started out printing them for students on a Xerox machine until the publisher Pearson took them on.I recently travelled to schools in China, Japan and South Korea as part of a research project. They have a great respect for teachers in these countries, which we don\u2019t have in Mexico. The climate here isn\u2019t very good; teachers tend to be seen as lazy or troublemakers. People who go on protests are viewed particularly negatively. In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them. No bodies have been found, but we presume that they\u2019re dead. The media has reported that the authorities paid the local drug cartel to kill them. I love my country, but we have a saying, \u201cYou hurt me, Mexico\u201d. It is very painful to see what is happening because of corruption. I don\u2019t know why the profession isn\u2019t valued. I remember interviewing a girl fresh out of college for a position. She wanted to be a teacher because she said she was looking for something \u201ceasy and not stressful\u201d to do. That\u2019s the last thing she\u2019d find in the profession. There\u2019s no easy way to change things, but it has to start with teacher training. I\u2019ve never been formally trained, but my country introduced a programme that was a real blessing for me. If you have five years experience teaching, but don\u2019t have a degree in education, then you can take a national exam to gain a certificate. I ranked first in the country and was able to do a masters in education. Many of my colleagues have been formally trained, though, and I know that courses are very poor. They focus a lot on theory and very little on what it means to teach. We can only really change things by showing respect for the profession and improving training.", "tags": ["Teacher Network", "Education", "Professional development", "Australian education", "US education", "Teaching", "Primary schools", "Secondary schools", "Schools", "Private schools"], "title": "Mexican teachers are not respected \u2013 but we can create a better future"},{"date": "2015-03-12T19:50:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican officials reportedly offered up to $20m in tax incentives to Sony Pictures and MGM in return for changes to be made to the next James Bond film, in an apparent attempt to combat the country\u2019s negative image. According to a report on the US website Tax Analysts, Mexico offered incentives in exchange for changes to to the script of Spectre, including a request for a Mexican Bond girl and a non-Mexican villain.Shooting for the latest instalment of the Bond franchise, to be directed by Sam Mendes, is due to begin next week.The report, based on internal Sony emails that were posted online by hackers purportedly linked to North Korea, said that studio executives from Sony Pictures Entertainment and MGM pressured for changes to the script to secure the incentives. \u201cYou have done a great job in getting us the Mexican incentive,\u201d wrote Jonathan Glickman, president of MGM\u2019s motion picture group, in an email to the film\u2019s producers. \u201cLet\u2019s continue to pursue whatever avenues we have available to maximize this incentive.\u201dMexico\u2019s requests for changes to the film script went much further than the conditions governments typically attach to filming deals, Tax Analysts reported.The studio apparently allowed Mexican authorities to \u201cmake casting decisions, dictate characters\u2019 ethnicities, and even change the occupation of an unnamed character that never appears on-screen or figures into the story outside of the opening scene\u201d, the website reported.The film\u2019s original script reportedly included an assassin named Sciarra with his sights on the mayor of Mexico City. Officials insisted that Sciarra \u201ccannot be Mexican\u201d and preferred that his target be an international leader.The Mexicans also reportedly demanded a Bond girl role for \u201ca known Mexican actress\u201d. This part of the deal, at least, appears to have been secured with the announcement last week that Stephanie Sigman had been cast in the movie.Sigman, ironically, made her name in the critically acclaimed low-budget Mexican film Miss Bala, in which she plays a poverty-stricken beauty tossed around the underworld of drug violence facilitated by police corruption. At the presentation of the film in Toronto, director Gerardo Naranjo called it \u201cthe story of a crumbling country\u201d.Mexican officials appeared eager to avoid any hint of such a negative portrayal of their country: in his email to the producer, Glickman said that highlighting Mexico City\u2019s \u201cmodern aspects\u201d could help the producers obtain an extra $6m of tax breaks. In another email, former head of Sony Pictures Amy Pascal suggested that travel footage could help the producers secure additional funding. \u201cWe should insist they add whatever travelogue footage we need in Mexico to get the extra money,\u201d she wrote.The emails also suggest Mexican officials wanted to replace a cage fight with a chase through Mexico\u2019s famed Day of the Dead celebrations, as well as include impressive aerial shots of the capital\u2019s skyline when Bond steals Sciarra\u2019s helicopter.Although the Mexican institutions involved have not been revealed, the attempt to massage the country\u2019s image fits into a wider context of determined efforts by the authorities to play down the country\u2019s security crisis, after a decade of drug-fuelled violence that has killed about 100,000 people.President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto was elected in 2012 with the help of a slick publicity campaign that made much of his telenovela good looks and telenovela star wife. His first 18 months in office were marked by a public relations crusade aimed at convincing the world that the country\u2019s long-running security crisis was a minor problem, trumped by his modernising economic vision.Today that image has been badly tarnished by emblematic atrocities that cannot be ignored, such as the disappearance of 43 students in September after they were attacked by police in league with a drug cartel.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Film", "James Bond", "Culture", "Film industry", "Americas"], "title": "License to shill: Mexico pays James Bond film studios millions to shoot its good side"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-03-22T07:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Elisa Guerra is a teacher at Colegio Valle de Filadelfia in Mexico. She set up the school in 2004 and this year is opening two new institutions in Brazil and Costa Rica.   I originally wanted to be a writer and studied Hispanic literature in college. My father lost his job so I was only able to stay for one term. I had to leave to help support my family. For a couple of years I was a model. My mum owned a clothes shop and I used to be in her fashion shows. That led to work in magazines and commercials. It was fun for a 19-year-old, but had little meaning. I didn\u2019t want to be on the cover of a magazine because of my looks, I wanted to be there because of something I\u2019d done.Having children inspired me to become a teacher. In my twenties I got married and had children \u2013 they\u2019re now aged 12, 17 and 20. At first I was a stay-at-home mum and I had all of this time with my son. I wanted it to be joyful and for him to love books like I do, so I began teaching him. I started reading everything I could find on education and took a course in Philadelphia, US, at the Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential. It\u2019s an amazing international organisation that specialises in working with children with brain damage as well as those who are healthy. It taught me about brain development and how to create the right environment for learning. After I completed the course, I started volunteering with the organisation. I now run their office for Latin America and teach parents about child development. A lot of it is about helping families realise that all is not lost and that their kids can learn to do many things. When I looked for a pre-school for my children there was nowhere I liked, so I created one myself. The places in my city were very traditional. My eldest son attended one for a while, and although he enjoyed parts of it, he kept saying, \u201cI get bored, we do the same things every day\u201d.I got together with a friend and we rented a house. My father was back in work and he gave me $2,000 (\u00a31,341) to help with costs. At the beginning we weren\u2019t earning, but then the school grew and after a few years we had 100 students. Five years later my friend and I went our separate ways, as we had different views on how the project should develop.In 2004, I sold my car for $15,000 (\u00a310,064) and set up another school. For the first year it was tough, because I was doing everything \u2013 acting as the principal, answering the phones, teaching classes, and being a mum. My husband wasn\u2019t helpful, and I\u2019m a single mother now. This made me realise that I had to make things happen for the project and my family \u2013 I support everyone now on my income. And I was very lucky because I got to go to work every day with my kids in tow. I know that most people can\u2019t do that. My children have been a huge part of the project. The pre-school has grown to 164 students and we go up to ninth grade now. It\u2019s a private school, and our students are mainly middle class, but we offer scholarships.In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them.This year we\u2019re opening schools in Costa Rica and Brazil, and I have schools in four other Mexican cities. I never intended to set up places elsewhere, but a mum and pre-school teacher who sent her son to my original school moved to another city and asked if we could open something there. I didn\u2019t have the money, so we came up with a franchise model. It\u2019s still very personal though, the directors own the school but I train the teachers and visit when I can. The other schools have stemmed from people approaching me.The model the schools are based on is focused on ensuring students explore a wide range of subjects and have the space to pursue their interests. We follow the national curriculum, but we have an enrichment curriculum on top of that. It covers art and music, and each month we look at a different country in detail. Teaching children about diversity is important and the textbooks I\u2019ve written always include an element of learning about other ways of life. I started writing them because I didn\u2019t think the ones available in Mexico were challenging enough. It was a long journey to getting published, I started out printing them for students on a Xerox machine until the publisher Pearson took them on.I recently travelled to schools in China, Japan and South Korea as part of a research project. They have a great respect for teachers in these countries, which we don\u2019t have in Mexico. The climate here isn\u2019t very good; teachers tend to be seen as lazy or troublemakers. People who go on protests are viewed particularly negatively. In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them. No bodies have been found, but we presume that they\u2019re dead. The media has reported that the authorities paid the local drug cartel to kill them. I love my country, but we have a saying, \u201cYou hurt me, Mexico\u201d. It is very painful to see what is happening because of corruption. I don\u2019t know why the profession isn\u2019t valued. I remember interviewing a girl fresh out of college for a position. She wanted to be a teacher because she said she was looking for something \u201ceasy and not stressful\u201d to do. That\u2019s the last thing she\u2019d find in the profession. There\u2019s no easy way to change things, but it has to start with teacher training. I\u2019ve never been formally trained, but my country introduced a programme that was a real blessing for me. If you have five years experience teaching, but don\u2019t have a degree in education, then you can take a national exam to gain a certificate. I ranked first in the country and was able to do a masters in education. Many of my colleagues have been formally trained, though, and I know that courses are very poor. They focus a lot on theory and very little on what it means to teach. We can only really change things by showing respect for the profession and improving training.", "tags": ["Teacher Network", "Education", "Professional development", "Australian education", "US education", "Teaching", "Primary schools", "Secondary schools", "Schools", "Private schools"], "title": "Mexican teachers are not respected \u2013 but we can create a better future"},{"date": "2015-03-12T19:50:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican officials reportedly offered up to $20m in tax incentives to Sony Pictures and MGM in return for changes to be made to the next James Bond film, in an apparent attempt to combat the country\u2019s negative image. According to a report on the US website Tax Analysts, Mexico offered incentives in exchange for changes to to the script of Spectre, including a request for a Mexican Bond girl and a non-Mexican villain.Shooting for the latest instalment of the Bond franchise, to be directed by Sam Mendes, is due to begin next week.The report, based on internal Sony emails that were posted online by hackers purportedly linked to North Korea, said that studio executives from Sony Pictures Entertainment and MGM pressured for changes to the script to secure the incentives. \u201cYou have done a great job in getting us the Mexican incentive,\u201d wrote Jonathan Glickman, president of MGM\u2019s motion picture group, in an email to the film\u2019s producers. \u201cLet\u2019s continue to pursue whatever avenues we have available to maximize this incentive.\u201dMexico\u2019s requests for changes to the film script went much further than the conditions governments typically attach to filming deals, Tax Analysts reported.The studio apparently allowed Mexican authorities to \u201cmake casting decisions, dictate characters\u2019 ethnicities, and even change the occupation of an unnamed character that never appears on-screen or figures into the story outside of the opening scene\u201d, the website reported.The film\u2019s original script reportedly included an assassin named Sciarra with his sights on the mayor of Mexico City. Officials insisted that Sciarra \u201ccannot be Mexican\u201d and preferred that his target be an international leader.The Mexicans also reportedly demanded a Bond girl role for \u201ca known Mexican actress\u201d. This part of the deal, at least, appears to have been secured with the announcement last week that Stephanie Sigman had been cast in the movie.Sigman, ironically, made her name in the critically acclaimed low-budget Mexican film Miss Bala, in which she plays a poverty-stricken beauty tossed around the underworld of drug violence facilitated by police corruption. At the presentation of the film in Toronto, director Gerardo Naranjo called it \u201cthe story of a crumbling country\u201d.Mexican officials appeared eager to avoid any hint of such a negative portrayal of their country: in his email to the producer, Glickman said that highlighting Mexico City\u2019s \u201cmodern aspects\u201d could help the producers obtain an extra $6m of tax breaks. In another email, former head of Sony Pictures Amy Pascal suggested that travel footage could help the producers secure additional funding. \u201cWe should insist they add whatever travelogue footage we need in Mexico to get the extra money,\u201d she wrote.The emails also suggest Mexican officials wanted to replace a cage fight with a chase through Mexico\u2019s famed Day of the Dead celebrations, as well as include impressive aerial shots of the capital\u2019s skyline when Bond steals Sciarra\u2019s helicopter.Although the Mexican institutions involved have not been revealed, the attempt to massage the country\u2019s image fits into a wider context of determined efforts by the authorities to play down the country\u2019s security crisis, after a decade of drug-fuelled violence that has killed about 100,000 people.President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto was elected in 2012 with the help of a slick publicity campaign that made much of his telenovela good looks and telenovela star wife. His first 18 months in office were marked by a public relations crusade aimed at convincing the world that the country\u2019s long-running security crisis was a minor problem, trumped by his modernising economic vision.Today that image has been badly tarnished by emblematic atrocities that cannot be ignored, such as the disappearance of 43 students in September after they were attacked by police in league with a drug cartel.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Film", "James Bond", "Culture", "Film industry", "Americas"], "title": "License to shill: Mexico pays James Bond film studios millions to shoot its good side"},{"date": "2015-03-09T21:52:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A scathing UN report has sharply rebuked Mexico for its widespread problem with torture, which it said implicates all levels of the security apparatus in the context of the government\u2019s efforts to combat crime.\u201cTorture and ill treatment during detention are generalized in Mexico, and occur in a context of impunity,\u201d the UN special rapporteur on torture, Juan M\u00e9ndez, wrote in the report he presented on Monday before the Human Rights Commission in Geneva.The report was based on a fact-finding mission M\u00e9ndez made to Mexico last spring, and says methods used include beatings, electric shocks, suffocation, waterboarding, forced nudity and rape, as well as threats and insults. Related: UN: parents of missing Mexican student teachers are at risk and need protection M\u00e9ndez\u2019s report links torture in Mexico to government efforts to combat the country\u2019s drug cartels, saying the majority of cases he studied involved victims detained for alleged links with organized crime. He also implicates local, state and federal police in the practice, as well as the armed forces. The army and navy\u2019s role in public security operations escalated dramatically when President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a major offensive against organized crime at the end of 2006. His successor, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, has made few major changes to the strategy since he took office at the end of 2012.The number of complaints of torture made to the National Human Rights Commission rose from an average of 320 a year before the offensive to 2,100 in 2012. They have fallen by nearly a third during the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration, though the report notes that contributing factors remain largely unchanged, including the \u201ctolerance, indifference or complicity\u201d of some doctors, public defenders, prosecutors and judges.Highlighting that there were only five convictions for torture in Mexico between 2005 and 2013, the report concludes: \u201cThe safeguards are weak, particularly in the detection and prevention of torture in the initial moments, as well as in ensuring its rapid, impartial, independent and exhaustive investigation.\u201dAs well as recommending the withdrawal of the armed forces from its current domestic security role, M\u00e9ndez urges the elimination of the law allowing Mexican authorities to hold suspects for a period of 40 days prior to bringing charges as investigators seek to build cases against them, often with the help of forced confessions. Related: Mexico's missing students draw attention to 20,000 'vanished' others Mexico\u2019s representative in Geneva said the report\u2019s conclusion that torture is generalised \u201cdoes not correspond to reality, or reflect the huge efforts in my country to consolidate respect for human rights\u201d.In an interview with the newspaper La Jornada, Jorge Lom\u00f3naco said: \u201cMexico identifies a series of challenges it needs to attend to ensure the complete eradication of this practice.\u201dThe report comes in a context of rising global attention to human rights abuses in Mexico sparked by the disappearance of 43 students in the southern city of Iguala on 26 September, after they were attacked by municipal police allegedly working with a local drug gang.The federal investigation concluded that the students were killed on the same night, though some reject this version\u2019s reliance on confessions made by detained officers and alleged cartel members.The student case cast a shadow over President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s state visit to the UK last week that was greeted by protests, including one organised by Amnesty International.The group\u2019s Americas director, Erika Guevara-Rosas, said Monday\u2019s UN report \u201chighlights a culture of impunity and brutality that we have been campaigning about for years\u201d.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "UN: torture in Mexico occurs with 'impunity' at hands of security forces"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-03-22T07:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Elisa Guerra is a teacher at Colegio Valle de Filadelfia in Mexico. She set up the school in 2004 and this year is opening two new institutions in Brazil and Costa Rica.   I originally wanted to be a writer and studied Hispanic literature in college. My father lost his job so I was only able to stay for one term. I had to leave to help support my family. For a couple of years I was a model. My mum owned a clothes shop and I used to be in her fashion shows. That led to work in magazines and commercials. It was fun for a 19-year-old, but had little meaning. I didn\u2019t want to be on the cover of a magazine because of my looks, I wanted to be there because of something I\u2019d done.Having children inspired me to become a teacher. In my twenties I got married and had children \u2013 they\u2019re now aged 12, 17 and 20. At first I was a stay-at-home mum and I had all of this time with my son. I wanted it to be joyful and for him to love books like I do, so I began teaching him. I started reading everything I could find on education and took a course in Philadelphia, US, at the Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential. It\u2019s an amazing international organisation that specialises in working with children with brain damage as well as those who are healthy. It taught me about brain development and how to create the right environment for learning. After I completed the course, I started volunteering with the organisation. I now run their office for Latin America and teach parents about child development. A lot of it is about helping families realise that all is not lost and that their kids can learn to do many things. When I looked for a pre-school for my children there was nowhere I liked, so I created one myself. The places in my city were very traditional. My eldest son attended one for a while, and although he enjoyed parts of it, he kept saying, \u201cI get bored, we do the same things every day\u201d.I got together with a friend and we rented a house. My father was back in work and he gave me $2,000 (\u00a31,341) to help with costs. At the beginning we weren\u2019t earning, but then the school grew and after a few years we had 100 students. Five years later my friend and I went our separate ways, as we had different views on how the project should develop.In 2004, I sold my car for $15,000 (\u00a310,064) and set up another school. For the first year it was tough, because I was doing everything \u2013 acting as the principal, answering the phones, teaching classes, and being a mum. My husband wasn\u2019t helpful, and I\u2019m a single mother now. This made me realise that I had to make things happen for the project and my family \u2013 I support everyone now on my income. And I was very lucky because I got to go to work every day with my kids in tow. I know that most people can\u2019t do that. My children have been a huge part of the project. The pre-school has grown to 164 students and we go up to ninth grade now. It\u2019s a private school, and our students are mainly middle class, but we offer scholarships.In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them.This year we\u2019re opening schools in Costa Rica and Brazil, and I have schools in four other Mexican cities. I never intended to set up places elsewhere, but a mum and pre-school teacher who sent her son to my original school moved to another city and asked if we could open something there. I didn\u2019t have the money, so we came up with a franchise model. It\u2019s still very personal though, the directors own the school but I train the teachers and visit when I can. The other schools have stemmed from people approaching me.The model the schools are based on is focused on ensuring students explore a wide range of subjects and have the space to pursue their interests. We follow the national curriculum, but we have an enrichment curriculum on top of that. It covers art and music, and each month we look at a different country in detail. Teaching children about diversity is important and the textbooks I\u2019ve written always include an element of learning about other ways of life. I started writing them because I didn\u2019t think the ones available in Mexico were challenging enough. It was a long journey to getting published, I started out printing them for students on a Xerox machine until the publisher Pearson took them on.I recently travelled to schools in China, Japan and South Korea as part of a research project. They have a great respect for teachers in these countries, which we don\u2019t have in Mexico. The climate here isn\u2019t very good; teachers tend to be seen as lazy or troublemakers. People who go on protests are viewed particularly negatively. In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them. No bodies have been found, but we presume that they\u2019re dead. The media has reported that the authorities paid the local drug cartel to kill them. I love my country, but we have a saying, \u201cYou hurt me, Mexico\u201d. It is very painful to see what is happening because of corruption. I don\u2019t know why the profession isn\u2019t valued. I remember interviewing a girl fresh out of college for a position. She wanted to be a teacher because she said she was looking for something \u201ceasy and not stressful\u201d to do. That\u2019s the last thing she\u2019d find in the profession. There\u2019s no easy way to change things, but it has to start with teacher training. I\u2019ve never been formally trained, but my country introduced a programme that was a real blessing for me. If you have five years experience teaching, but don\u2019t have a degree in education, then you can take a national exam to gain a certificate. I ranked first in the country and was able to do a masters in education. Many of my colleagues have been formally trained, though, and I know that courses are very poor. They focus a lot on theory and very little on what it means to teach. We can only really change things by showing respect for the profession and improving training.", "tags": ["Teacher Network", "Education", "Professional development", "Australian education", "US education", "Teaching", "Primary schools", "Secondary schools", "Schools", "Private schools"], "title": "Mexican teachers are not respected \u2013 but we can create a better future"},{"date": "2015-03-12T19:50:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican officials reportedly offered up to $20m in tax incentives to Sony Pictures and MGM in return for changes to be made to the next James Bond film, in an apparent attempt to combat the country\u2019s negative image. According to a report on the US website Tax Analysts, Mexico offered incentives in exchange for changes to to the script of Spectre, including a request for a Mexican Bond girl and a non-Mexican villain.Shooting for the latest instalment of the Bond franchise, to be directed by Sam Mendes, is due to begin next week.The report, based on internal Sony emails that were posted online by hackers purportedly linked to North Korea, said that studio executives from Sony Pictures Entertainment and MGM pressured for changes to the script to secure the incentives. \u201cYou have done a great job in getting us the Mexican incentive,\u201d wrote Jonathan Glickman, president of MGM\u2019s motion picture group, in an email to the film\u2019s producers. \u201cLet\u2019s continue to pursue whatever avenues we have available to maximize this incentive.\u201dMexico\u2019s requests for changes to the film script went much further than the conditions governments typically attach to filming deals, Tax Analysts reported.The studio apparently allowed Mexican authorities to \u201cmake casting decisions, dictate characters\u2019 ethnicities, and even change the occupation of an unnamed character that never appears on-screen or figures into the story outside of the opening scene\u201d, the website reported.The film\u2019s original script reportedly included an assassin named Sciarra with his sights on the mayor of Mexico City. Officials insisted that Sciarra \u201ccannot be Mexican\u201d and preferred that his target be an international leader.The Mexicans also reportedly demanded a Bond girl role for \u201ca known Mexican actress\u201d. This part of the deal, at least, appears to have been secured with the announcement last week that Stephanie Sigman had been cast in the movie.Sigman, ironically, made her name in the critically acclaimed low-budget Mexican film Miss Bala, in which she plays a poverty-stricken beauty tossed around the underworld of drug violence facilitated by police corruption. At the presentation of the film in Toronto, director Gerardo Naranjo called it \u201cthe story of a crumbling country\u201d.Mexican officials appeared eager to avoid any hint of such a negative portrayal of their country: in his email to the producer, Glickman said that highlighting Mexico City\u2019s \u201cmodern aspects\u201d could help the producers obtain an extra $6m of tax breaks. In another email, former head of Sony Pictures Amy Pascal suggested that travel footage could help the producers secure additional funding. \u201cWe should insist they add whatever travelogue footage we need in Mexico to get the extra money,\u201d she wrote.The emails also suggest Mexican officials wanted to replace a cage fight with a chase through Mexico\u2019s famed Day of the Dead celebrations, as well as include impressive aerial shots of the capital\u2019s skyline when Bond steals Sciarra\u2019s helicopter.Although the Mexican institutions involved have not been revealed, the attempt to massage the country\u2019s image fits into a wider context of determined efforts by the authorities to play down the country\u2019s security crisis, after a decade of drug-fuelled violence that has killed about 100,000 people.President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto was elected in 2012 with the help of a slick publicity campaign that made much of his telenovela good looks and telenovela star wife. His first 18 months in office were marked by a public relations crusade aimed at convincing the world that the country\u2019s long-running security crisis was a minor problem, trumped by his modernising economic vision.Today that image has been badly tarnished by emblematic atrocities that cannot be ignored, such as the disappearance of 43 students in September after they were attacked by police in league with a drug cartel.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Film", "James Bond", "Culture", "Film industry", "Americas"], "title": "License to shill: Mexico pays James Bond film studios millions to shoot its good side"},{"date": "2015-03-09T21:52:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A scathing UN report has sharply rebuked Mexico for its widespread problem with torture, which it said implicates all levels of the security apparatus in the context of the government\u2019s efforts to combat crime.\u201cTorture and ill treatment during detention are generalized in Mexico, and occur in a context of impunity,\u201d the UN special rapporteur on torture, Juan M\u00e9ndez, wrote in the report he presented on Monday before the Human Rights Commission in Geneva.The report was based on a fact-finding mission M\u00e9ndez made to Mexico last spring, and says methods used include beatings, electric shocks, suffocation, waterboarding, forced nudity and rape, as well as threats and insults. Related: UN: parents of missing Mexican student teachers are at risk and need protection M\u00e9ndez\u2019s report links torture in Mexico to government efforts to combat the country\u2019s drug cartels, saying the majority of cases he studied involved victims detained for alleged links with organized crime. He also implicates local, state and federal police in the practice, as well as the armed forces. The army and navy\u2019s role in public security operations escalated dramatically when President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a major offensive against organized crime at the end of 2006. His successor, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, has made few major changes to the strategy since he took office at the end of 2012.The number of complaints of torture made to the National Human Rights Commission rose from an average of 320 a year before the offensive to 2,100 in 2012. They have fallen by nearly a third during the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration, though the report notes that contributing factors remain largely unchanged, including the \u201ctolerance, indifference or complicity\u201d of some doctors, public defenders, prosecutors and judges.Highlighting that there were only five convictions for torture in Mexico between 2005 and 2013, the report concludes: \u201cThe safeguards are weak, particularly in the detection and prevention of torture in the initial moments, as well as in ensuring its rapid, impartial, independent and exhaustive investigation.\u201dAs well as recommending the withdrawal of the armed forces from its current domestic security role, M\u00e9ndez urges the elimination of the law allowing Mexican authorities to hold suspects for a period of 40 days prior to bringing charges as investigators seek to build cases against them, often with the help of forced confessions. Related: Mexico's missing students draw attention to 20,000 'vanished' others Mexico\u2019s representative in Geneva said the report\u2019s conclusion that torture is generalised \u201cdoes not correspond to reality, or reflect the huge efforts in my country to consolidate respect for human rights\u201d.In an interview with the newspaper La Jornada, Jorge Lom\u00f3naco said: \u201cMexico identifies a series of challenges it needs to attend to ensure the complete eradication of this practice.\u201dThe report comes in a context of rising global attention to human rights abuses in Mexico sparked by the disappearance of 43 students in the southern city of Iguala on 26 September, after they were attacked by municipal police allegedly working with a local drug gang.The federal investigation concluded that the students were killed on the same night, though some reject this version\u2019s reliance on confessions made by detained officers and alleged cartel members.The student case cast a shadow over President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s state visit to the UK last week that was greeted by protests, including one organised by Amnesty International.The group\u2019s Americas director, Erika Guevara-Rosas, said Monday\u2019s UN report \u201chighlights a culture of impunity and brutality that we have been campaigning about for years\u201d.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "UN: torture in Mexico occurs with 'impunity' at hands of security forces"},{"date": "2015-03-06T10:25:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Let us bid us a fond farewell to Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, who has been in the UK this week as part of a state visit. During his time here, he has travelled across the country, from London to Aberdeen, meeting the UK\u2019s most important representatives including all three party leaders and the Queen, and has signed a \u201cMemoranda of Understanding on Collaboration in the Energy Sector\u201d, with representatives from the UK oil and gas industry.The Queen spoke of the \u201cenduring friendship\u201d between Mexico and the UK, Nick Clegg remarked that he hoped the visit would usher in a \u201cnew era of UK-Mexico relations which will bring our people even closer together\u201d, and FCO minister Hugo Swire tweeted that he had found Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s speech \u201cinspiring\u201d.Even by the tawdry standards usually applied to British relations with Latin America, this takes some doing. Mexico is in the grip of an urgent human rights crisis, with Amnesty International describing torture as \u201cout of control\u201d and accusing police and security services of having \u201cblood on their hands\u201d. More than 100,000 people have been killed and more than 22,000 have disappeared since Mexico launched a \u201cwar on drugs\u201d in 2006. The most recent outrage in Mexico has been the disappearance and probable massacre of 43 students in Ayotzinapa, which Pe\u00f1a Nieto insisted had nothing to do with the Mexican authorities \u2013 despite growing evidence to the contrary. Related: UK trade deal finances 'dirty energy' projects in Mexico, says Greenpeace The kindest thing one could say about Pe\u00f1a Nieto with regards to the students of Ayotzinapa, the drug war, the murder of thousands and the threats to journalists who try to expose these crimes, is that he has been totally incompetent, unforgivably slow to react, and has failed to adhere to even the most anodyne of his pre-election promises to approach the problems with narcotrafficking from a less militaristic standpoint. This failure means Mexico\u2019s security services are still armed to the teeth, making it easier for them to commit exactly the sort of human rights violations condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups across the world.In light of these facts, David Cameron\u2019s vague assurance that he would \u201craise the human rights issue\u201d during Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s UK visit is laughable. The prime minister rightfully expresses horror when Isis militants behead captives to send a message to the west, and yet welcomes with open arms the president of a country in which innocent people are publicly beheaded by drug cartels in their hundreds, protected by a culture of silence and indifference.And yet we should expect nothing less from the west\u2019s attitude towards Latin America, which has been characterised by this kind of hypocrisy for centuries. Across the region, the US in particular has been unrestrained in its meddling with Latin American governments, frequently installing or befriending tyrants that submit to its will and then denouncing them as soon as they cease to be useful. Even now, the UK and the US are engaged in brazen hypocrisy in their attitudes towards the region \u2013 like, for example, Hugo Swire promising that he does not \u201cturn a blind eye\u201d to human rights violations in Colombia (our other unsavoury Latin American ally) at the same time as the Colombian press was reporting that the UK was providing specialist training to the notoriously violent Colombian military. The UK Foreign Office is yet to clarify its position on that.Similarly, US Congress is preparing to issue sanctions against Venezuela for human rights violations committed by the security forces during protests last year; an incredible feat of double standards, given that even Venezuela\u2019s harshest critics would concede the human rights situation there isn\u2019t even close to the crisis in Mexico, or \u2013 for that matter \u2013 Colombia. Far more likely the US is unhappy with Venezuela\u2019s hostility towards it, as well as its pivotal role in setting up a network of Bolivarian socialist governments across the region (including Bolivia, Ecuador, Cuba, Nicaragua) which have made it their mission to extricate themselves from economic dependence upon the country.Those who defend our foreign policy in Latin America would probably invoke realpolitik; they might argue that the west\u2019s hypocrisy is justifiable, given the need for nations to look out for their own interests. Whatever the reason, we shouldn\u2019t be under any illusion about the consequences of our double standards. It\u2019s not socialist leaders like Fidel Castro or the late Hugo Chavez who suffer from our actions; it\u2019s the region\u2019s poorest and most vulnerable people \u2013 like those 43 Mexican students.We owe it to them to do things differently.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "Mexico has a human rights crisis, so why welcome its president with open arms? | Ellie Mae O\u2019Hagan"},{"date": "2015-01-30T05:16:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A woman and two children have died and dozens more were injured in a gas explosion in a Mexico City maternity hospital that shattered the building and caused it to collapse.\u201cThe hospital is completely destroyed,\u201d local council leader Adri\u00e1n Rubalcaba told Radio Formula of the devastation at the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s Hospital of Cuajimalpa. \u201cWe have been lucky that the number of fatalities is still low. There are a lot of people injured who have been taken to other hospitals.\u201dAuthorities estimated there were up to 100 people inside the hospital at the time of the explosion on Thursday morning. Employees told reporters that many left the building when they began to smell gas.A 25-year-old nurse and a newborn between two and three weeks old died at the scene and another infant died several hours later at another paediatric hospital, said Armando Ahued, the city\u2019s health secretary. He had said earlier that 21 babies in all had been injured, with nine of those and seven adults in a serious condition after being rushed to other hospitals.The explosion occurred at 7.05am while a gas tanker was filling up a stationary tank in the hospital. A leak was detected and the fire service called.\u201cEverything shook and a huge plume of smoke rose up,\u201d said Emiliano Lara, who saw the explosion as he was leaving his house on a hill above the hospital, which is located on the north-western edge of the capital.Lara and other locals rushed down the hill and began searching for survivors in the rubble. They used their bare hands and rudimentary tools. \u201cAt one point I called out for a saw and five minutes later somebody brought one,\u201d he said.The 49-year-old maintenance worker said they first released two nurses and then five babies.\u201cThey weren\u2019t crying but I knew they were alive because they were moving their little arms and legs,\u201d he told the Guardian. He said it appeared they had been in an area of specialised care, as several were attached to drip tubes.Lara said that he heard faint cries when he put his ear to the rubble. He said the locals worked with firemen already at the scene for about 40 minutes until specialised rescue teams arrived, their approach having been hampered by the rush-hour traffic.Thirty-five-year-old Felicitas Hern\u00e1ndez wept as she frantically questioned people outside the mostly collapsed building, hoping for word of her month-old baby, who had been in the hospital since birth with respiratory problems.\u201cThey wouldn\u2019t let me sleep with him,\u201d Hern\u00e1ndez, who said she had come to the city-run Maternity and Children\u2019s hospital of Cuajimalpa because shedidn\u2019t have the money, told the Associated Press.Witnesses said the tanker workers had struggled frantically for 15 or 20 minutes to repair the leak while a large cloud of gas formed.\u201cThe hose broke. The two gas workers tried to stop it but they were very nervous. They yelled for people to get out,\u201d said Laura Diaz Pacheco, a laboratory technician.\u201cEveryone\u2019s initial reaction was to go inside, away from the gas. Maybe as many as 10 of us were able to get out ... The rest stayed inside.Local residents said they heard sirens well before the explosion took place at 7.15am. They saw no sign of an evacuation.Soldiers and police cordoned off the area amid chaotic scenes as helicopters ferried victims to other hospitals.Initial reports that seven people had died were later revised down. The authorities issued a general call for blood donors.As the day wore on people arrived with diapers and baby formula at Hospital ABC where some of the injured were taken. There was an hour-long wait to donate blood. It was the closest hospital to the explosion and received 31 patients, including 17 children.The gas truck driver and two other employees of the Express Nieto company were hospitalized but were in custody, said the Mexico City mayor, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera. He said the company has provided gas to all the city\u2019s public hospitals since 2007.The incident prompted tweets from President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis, who wrote: \u201cWe are praying for the victims of the explosion in Cuajimalpa, Mexico.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Deadly explosion at Mexico City children's hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-15T07:02:05Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The discourse this weekend over HSBC is whether the bank and those its Swiss subsidiary aided to evade tax should be prosecuted, like any other citizen. Or whether there should be a repeat of what happened last time HSBC was in major trouble: the bank paid a fine equivalent to a pittance in its turnover; executives not only got off but were promoted to higher service; and the PR guff promised that all was now aright.It is worth recalling exactly what HSBC was found to be \u2013 and admitted \u2013 doing on that last occasion, in 2012: laundering hundreds of millions of dollars for the world\u2019s biggest crime syndicate, the Sinaloa narco cartel of recently arrested \u201cChapo\u201d Guzman.Mexico\u2019s narco nightmare now counts 100,000 dead and some 20,000 missing; there is no overstating the misery of its export \u2013 hard drugs \u2013 around the world. Yet only one stepping stone connects HSBC to this carnage and misery: the bank acted as the cartel\u2019s financial services wing.Much of the money swilling into HSBC from the cartel came through an apparently small exchange house, Casa de Cambio Puebla. The bank would later protest that it knew not whence the money came, but Puebla had been under investigation by Mexican and US Federal authorities for two years when HSBC was caught, for handling a staggering $376bn of suspect money for an American bank, Wachovia. Wachovia was punished with a \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d \u2013 a yellow card; none of its employees was arrested.HSBC carried on, however, through the same exchange house and other channels: a bank it had bought in Mexico, another in California and, it emerged, even through its own branches. When HSBC was caught out, the head of the US Justice Department\u2019s criminal division, Lanny Breuer, said that cartel operatives would arrive at the bank\u2019s branches and \u201cdeposit hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash, in a single day, into a single account, using boxes designed to fit the precise dimensions of the teller windows\u201d. HSBC asked no questions.It was Breuer\u2019s task to weigh up the case on the basis of a Senate report into HSBC\u2019s shifting of Sinaloa money. It ended up at the Justice Department, where Breuer concluded that HSBC had been guilty of \u201cstunning failures of oversight \u2013 and worse, that led the bank to permit narcotics traffickers and others to launder hundreds of millions of dollars through HSBC subsidiaries and to facilitate hundreds of millions more in transactions with sanctioned countries\u201d, including money banked for terrorist organisations in the Middle East.The bank was fined more than Wachovia, a record $1.9bn. But this was less than five weeks\u2019 income for HSBC\u2019s American subsidiary. Breuer deemed that HSBC should not be prosecuted in the way that a back-street dope-dealer would be; there would be a five-year \u201cdeferred prosecution\u201d.The bank announced that it would \u201cpartially defer bonus compensation for its most senior officials during the five-year period of the deferred prosecution agreement\u201d \u2013 ergo they\u2019d be renumerated with slightly less than usual. Ouch! But what HSBC did was not indictable.And not just that: Paul Thurston, the man in charge of HSBC Mexico for some of the relevant period, was promoted to become head of global retail on a multi-million dollar salary. Stephen Green, the chief executive of the bank throughout its service to Chapo Guzman\u2019s cartel, was appointed to the British government.Green\u2019s replacement as CEO, Stuart Gulliver, did what behemoth corporations always do in these situations: make a hollow statement to apologise for \u201cpast mistakes\u201d. He said: \u201cWe accept responsibility for our past mistakes. We have said we are profoundly sorry for them.\u201d He insisted HSBC was \u201ca fundamentally different organisation\u201d now. The bank said similar last week.The reaction in Britain\u2019s financial media was astonishing: to side with the bank against treacherous Mexicans manipulating its good name: \u201cMexico,\u201d reported the Financial Times, \u201chad become a compliance nightmare for HSBC.\u201d The New York Times not only got the idea, but articulated it clearly:\u201cFederal and state authorities have chosen not to indict HSBC, the London-based bank, on charges of vast and prolonged money laundering, for fear that criminal prosecution would topple the bank and, in the process, endanger the financial system.\u201dReferring to the Wachovia case, Robert Mazur, the US federal agent who infiltrated the BCCI bank, which was prosecuted for laundering money for Colombian drug lord Pablo Escobar, said something similar: \u201cThere were external circumstances that worked to Wachovia\u2019s benefit, not least that the US banking system was on the edge of collapse.\u201d Nevertheless, Mazur added cogently to this weekend\u2019s deliberations: \u201cThe only thing that will get the message to the banks and start to solve the problem is the rattle of handcuffs in the boardroom.\u201dHSBC\u2019s handling of Chapo Guzman\u2019s blood money had no impact on the bank: the last letters you see on the ramp boarding a plane from London to Mexico City are HSBC, and they are the first on the arrivals ramp when you get there, near a hangar recently revealed to belong to the Sinaloa cartel. Now, for the bank to get off with a wag of the finger for its disdain for those of us who pay our taxes would be a scandalous affirmation that we no longer understand any difference between crime and legality. \u2022 Comments will be opened later today", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Drugs trade", "UK news", "Mexico", "World news"], "title": "HSBC has form: remember Mexico and laundered drug money | Ed Vulliamy"},{"date": "2015-02-10T18:34:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "At the end of last year, inboxes pinged with news of a person called Shingy, AOL\u2019s new \u201cdigital prophet\u201d who travels the world litmus-testing the future, rebooting the CEO\u2019s office by taking out all the chairs and adding a special fragrance called London, and handing out a business card with a microchip in it. In an excruciatingly well-observed \u2013 and much-forwarded \u2013 New Yorker piece, writer Andrew Marantz detailed Shingy\u2019s comedy haircut, gnomic prescriptions for online success and overcomplicated post-hip-hop handshakes. To American readers he appeared to be only the latest evidence of decadent capitalism\u2019s journey to hell in a handcart powered by bullshit. How is drawing a bear in zebra-print pants worth a six-figure salary? In Britain, though, we reached for the shorthand term we\u2019ve learned to use for this sort of thing: Nathan Barley.Yes, Nathan Barley, self-facilitating media node, pioneer vlogger and all-round bumptious idiot. Even if you never saw Charlie Brooker and Chris Morris\u2019s Channel 4 sitcom from 2005, which relayed the adventures of a self-designated digital art terrorist in a fictional (but only slightly exaggerated) Shoreditch called the London borough of Hosegate, you\u2019ll be familiar with Nathan and his type. The stupid haircuts, the meaningless catchphrases (\u201cTotally Mexico! Well futile!\u201d), the massive self-regard, the daft fashion statements and the low-level passive-aggressive insinuation that if you don\u2019t get what they\u2019re doing then somehow it\u2019s your fault \u2026 these are the hallmarks of the modern creative layabout from Dalston to Williamsburg to Kreuzberg to N\u00f8rrebro.Nathan was conceived in the early noughties as a snapshot of a small and ludicrous slice of east London. He wasn\u2019t supposed to last. But he hasn\u2019t just survived; he\u2019s metastasised. The startups and creative consultancies of every other digital hub from Silicon Roundabout to Silicon Alley resemble nothing so much as Nathan\u2019s world of office juice bars, indoor scootering and open-plan thinkpods, plus vast injections of venture capital cash (the haircuts and low-slung denim are certainly the same). Vice, which provided at least part of the inspiration for Nathan\u2019s odious button-pushing style magazine Sugar Ape, is now a multi-million dollar Murdoch-backed business that carries genuinely dangerous warzone reportage while hanging on to its Barleyite roots. A sample headline: \u201cThere\u2019s More To The Duke Of Burgundy Than Lesbians Pissing On Each Other\u201d.With his relentless sadistic pranks against office assistant Pingu \u2013 example: plugging Pingu\u2019s ears into a lorry battery and then uploading video of his wretched twitch-dancing overdubbed with Mot\u00f6rhead\u2019s Ace Of Spades \u2013 Nathan established a new normal of online cruelty and self-publicity. From happy slapping to NekNominate to Rude Tube to Vine, anything is permitted now, as long as it fits a 19-year-old idiot\u2019s idea of what\u2019s funny. Brooker and Morris spotted this before YouTube even existed. And Nathan Barley was scarcely less prophetic when it came to TV itself. In one episode Nathan\u2019s friend Claire makes a comically po-faced, self-righteous but secretly rather narcissistic documentary about a choir made up of drug addicts. Nine years later, Channel 4 made Addicts\u2019 Symphony for real.Looking for an online guru with an open-ended nanofesto that boils down to \u201cpeace and fucking \u2013 believe!\u201d? Sorry Russell Brand, Nathan beat The Trews to the punch by 10 years with the rambling video homilies on his website (back when websites were novel) trashbat.co.ck. Barley aficionados will surely see in Brand some echoes of the show\u2019s Preacherman character, the burnt-out style writer Dan Ashcroft who is bullied by style mag Sugar Ape\u2019s appalling editor Jonatton Yeah? into adopting a voice-of-a-generation role. Replace the cynical weariness with messianism and you have Russell to a tee. Brand connoisseurs might also enjoy the episode in which Nathan copies a truly asinine haircut made up of paint and bottle tops and random gloop \u2013 the Geek Pie as it is known \u2013 and then peacocks around Hosegate pointing at it and crowing, \u201cNew fucking paradigm or what?\u201dFrom cereal cafes to breakfast raves to adult ball pools, from TV shows like Sex Box to newspaper features about the \u201cmeaning\u201d of the Man Bun hairdo to inexplicable online phenomena like Ello, our world has been Barleyed. It is uncanny. Created as a comic figure, Nathan has become an insult and a signifier and maybe even \u2013 here\u2019s the frightening part \u2013 a role model. At 10 years\u2019 remove the show seems less a comedy and more a documentary about the future.\u201cBack when we were shooting it,\u201d says the actor Nicholas Burns, who played Nathan, \u201cI remember one producer saying, \u2018This show will date terribly. In three or four years it\u2019ll look awful.\u2019 But watching it again, you see how prescient it was. It really is the world we live in now. A friend who lives in Dalston told me they saw someone riding a penny farthing the other day. It\u2019s unbelievable really.\u201dAs someone who once saw a fixed-gear cyclist bombing down Stoke Newington High Street in a GENERAL PINOCHET T-shirt, I am inclined to agree. Related: The rise of the idiots It is sobering to think that it\u2019s fully 10 years since Nathan\u2019s TV debut late on Friday 11 February 2005, and more sobering to reflect on how little has changed. We call them hipsters now, and they\u2019ve got beards, but in every other respect the Barleys are unaltered. \u201cThe anniversary makes me feel fucking ancient,\u201d says the show\u2019s co-creator, Guardian columnist Charlie Brooker. \u201cIt\u2019s actually even longer than 10 years, because Nathan started life on the TVGoHome website.\u201dTVGoHome was Brooker\u2019s surreal and scatalogical late 90s collection of fake TV listings, including imaginary shows such as Inspector Bumhat, Daily Mail Island and the probably-best-not-explained Mick Hucknall\u2019s Pink Pancakes. It now reads like a cross between an Alan Partridge \u201cmonkey tennis\u201d blue-skies idea session and a howl of existential despair. \u201cI had to stop doing TVGoHome,\u201d Brooker admits, \u201cbecause the real TV programmes were becoming more stupid than any I could make up.\u201d One regular listing concerned a young media man about town called Nathan Barley. It went under the pithy title of Cunt.\u201cWhen he started out, Nathan wasn\u2019t what we\u2019d now call a Shoreditch hipster,\u201d Brooker says. \u201cI\u2019d never even been to Shoreditch. It was more about moneyed young guys who claimed to be working in television when really they were living off their parents. He was more of a Made In Chelsea figure, and he kind of morphed into a Hoxton idiot for the TV show.\u201dChris Morris, the creator of The Day Today and Brasseye, had written listings in secret for TVGoHome. Around 2000 he suggested that they try to develop a show around the Nathan character and east London\u2019s increasingly absurd club/art scene. \u201cWe talked about the show for years before we made it,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cChris was adamant very early on that there should be a tiny acorn of likability to Nathan, something irrepressible. He does terrible things but he has an endearing sort of rabbity enthusiasm to him. In the fake listings he really was a cunt, whereas in the TV show he\u2019s a twat \u2013 and there is a difference.\u201cNick Burns was one of the first people we saw for Nathan, and he was just very funny from the start. He could pull off a preposterous swagger that was both enjoyable but coming from a place of massive insecurity.\u201dRather than scripting a series, they created characters with the actors in seemingly endless workshops, then built stories for six episodes around Nathan, the jaded hack Dan Ashcroft \u2013 played by Julian Barratt of The Mighty Boosh \u2014 plus his bad-tempered film director sister Claire (Claire Keelan) and the nightmarish editor Jonatton Yeah?, played by Charlie Condou. The work was so piecemeal and unstructured that even the actors didn\u2019t know what was really happening.\u201cI remember asking Richard Ayoade [who played arch-idiot Ned Smanks], Have we got this? Are we actually doing it?\u201d says Condou, who later found more mainstream fame as Coronation Street\u2019s Marcus Dent. \u201cHe had no idea and nor did I.\u201dOf necessity there were research trips to Shoreditch and Hoxton, then far from the gentrified locales they are now but already testing the limits of stupidity. Material seemed to fall into their lap, like the Vice party where they burned all the mainstream magazines on a bonfire. Or the pub that had been bought out by club promoters, but \u201cto confuse people\u201d they\u2019d kept the downstairs bar unaltered and given all the regulars membership. \u201cAll the normal people had been turned into these weird props.\u201dOne evening Condou met Tracey Emin at a party the Pet Shop Boys had thrown at Sam Taylor-Wood\u2019s studio on Redchurch Street. He told Emin how sorry he was to hear about the recent fire that had destroyed all her work. \u201cShe just looked at me and went \u2018meow\u2019. I was so taken aback. Did she just meow at me? Did that happen?\u201d The next day he told Brooker and Morris about it. \u201cWe\u2019re having that,\u201d they said.What had begun as Nathan\u2019s story slowly evolved into the tale of Dan Ashcroft\u2019s building animosity towards this apparently indestructible style goon, who couldn\u2019t help succeeding no matter what he did. Even when Nathan makes a total fool of himself with the Geek Pie haircut \u2013 and for once we feel rather sorry for him \u2013 there\u2019s a Japanese TV crew nearby to decide that he\u2019s inaugurated the new wave of hair statements and anoint Nathan as a style leader. Some universal law would operate in his favour. \u201cChris kept telling me, \u2018Nathan always wins\u2019,\u201d says Burns. Dan, meanwhile, begins to circle the plughole of his own resentment in what begins to feel like The Day Of The Locust in dragon-print Maharishi pants.Watching Nathan Barley now, the surprise is not just how durable the material is. It\u2019s the quality of the cast. The show is full of future stars, sometimes in tiny roles. \u201cBecause of Chris and The Day Today, everybody wanted to be in it,\u201d says Burns.Nathan\u2019s assistant-victim Pingu is played by Ben Whishaw, now Q in the Bond series, who in Nathan Barley scarcely says an intelligible line. Stephen Mangan appears for mere seconds as porn star Rod Senseless, yelling \u2013 and doing \u2013 jaw-dropping stuff that would put his Episodes audience in therapy. And the panicking finance director who tries to stop futurist-poseur Doug Rocket (a very thinly-veiled Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics) from squandering yet more millions on his preposterous arts lab, Place., is played by Benedict Cumberbatch. It is like watching George Clooney play a binman. \u201cThere are whole conversations with Cumberbatch that we didn\u2019t use,\u201d says Brooker. \u201cHours of it. The cast we got was insane. I\u2019ve got hours of rehearsals on VHS somewhere.\u201dYet Nathan Barley was not a success on its first transmission. Ratings began at 1.2m but dropped to a poor 700,000 for the final episode. The decision to show a comedy about clubbers, druggers, posing scenesters and dreadful DJs on a Friday night \u2013 when its core audience was out clubbing, taking drugs, posing on their various scenes and listening to dreadful DJs \u2013 was probably not the wisest.In the Guardian the show was denounced as \u201cfive years too late \u2026 woefully out of touch\u201d by Neil Boorman of the Shoreditch Twat, a fanzine aimed at real-life Barleys who possibly missed the point that Nathan Barley wasn\u2019t supposed to be a scrupulous reflection of Hoxton groovers but a surreal tweaking of their world. Despite the poor ratings, the people who liked the show really liked it, and talked about it long after it ended.\u201cWe\u2019d been told this show would only be of interest to five people in London,\u201d says Brooker, \u201cbut we thought there were probably Nathans \u2013 annoying, show-offy idiots who sometimes/always get away with it \u2013 back in the 4th century. He\u2019s a type.\u201dFirst DVD and then 4oD gave Nathan Barley an afterlife. \u201cWell Jackson\u201d, \u201ckeep it dense\u201d and Nathan\u2019s other vacuum-brained slogans began to enter the lexicon as ways to show that you fully understood the idiocy of any brave and edgy proposal before you. Nathan Barley is now mentioned every single day on Twitter, usually with reference to some new development in tech or fashion. \u201cAnd I don\u2019t think a day goes by without somebody shouting \u2018Totally Mexico\u2019 at me in the street,\u201d says Burns. \u201cNathan was the best thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in. I\u2019d play him again without a second\u2019s thought.\u201dDespite the low ratings there was, at some point, going to be a second series. Brooker, Morris and the cast workshopped scenes in which Nathan\u2019s parents staged an intervention at last, cutting off his money and sending him to rehab. Sugar Ape magazine would close down and become a website after the editor Jonatton Yeah? realised it was selling no copies whatsoever. The cast would end up living far from the bright lights of Hosegate in dismal suburbia, with Nathan\u2019s brother, a terribly straight doctor who was going through a hellish divorce. \u201cThe basic cast are now adrift,\u201d is how Brooker describes it, \u201cand Nathan is starting to worry that he\u2019s old and maybe slightly irrelevant.\u201d One storyline entailed him attempting to DJ at an NCT class.But Morris had become more interested in developing his Islamic fundamentalist comedy Four Lions and Brooker\u2019s TV career took off, first with Screenwipe and then Dead Set and Black Mirror. The first series of Nathan Barley had begun without any of the core cast realising they had actually started work on a TV show; the second faded away in much the same manner.Nevertheless it\u2019s tempting to wonder what these characters would be doing now. Nathan would have surely eased into the world of Vines and branded content, Brooker thinks, or perhaps would run some non-specific imagineering department of Google. Burns wonders if Nathan would have had some religious breakdown and gone to get his head together in the country, a locavore diet and low-carbon lifestyle being the guilt-ridden choice of many a former urban hedonist. \u201cThey\u2019d all have children with stupid names by now,\u201d he says. \u201cWhat a horrible thought.\u201dJonatton Yeah? would doubtless be running some nonsensical creative consultancy. Claire Ashcroft would probably have succeeded as a film-maker and then become a commissioning editor every bit as shallow as the ones she encountered in Nathan Barley. As for her journo brother Dan, \u201che\u2019d either be dead or finally writing restaurant reviews for Weekend on Sunday magazine,\u201d Brooker suspects. \u201cFor the second series we thought about having Dan trying to write a novel and working as a minicab driver. Nathan infuriates him by writing a novel in three weeks. But Pingu, I like to think, would have inadvertently made more money than any of them, from some app or other. The shoe would definitely be on the other foot. That\u2019s a comforting thought.\u201dAnd there is another comforting thought about Nathan and his world. However vapid and silly and self-congratulatory he was, in his own way Nathan was almost an idealist. He and his mates represent the twilight of the style mags, the last days before you needed well-heeled connections and independent means to make it into the media. And you never hear anyone at Sugar Ape wanting to energise the content space for maximum brand engagement.\u201cYou can laugh at the Sugar Ape team, and they are moronic,\u201d says Steve Beale, founding editor of the late style magazine Sleazenation and subsequently business director at Lazarides Galleries. \u201cBut at least they were doing it for the sake of expressing themselves. Back then, the style media was a way into journalism for young talent from outside London. It was feasible then, but that door has totally closed now. Who can just move into Hoxton Square on spec now? Today the media is just a career option for Head Boy and Head Girl types. Talent without connections and money just can\u2019t get a look in.\u201dPerhaps this is why Nathan Barley fans can still watch the show with affection. It is both an alternative vision of now and an image of the way things used to be, when you really could just ride into Shoreditch on a plastic tractor with a tiny bowler hat on your head and start some kind of a career. Things are less forgiving today.But we are all self-facilitating media nodes now, if only because we all hoot our opinions into the void of social media, vainly looking for affirmation. \u201cNathan will just not die,\u201d says Burns, \u201cand that\u2019s pretty Nathanic in itself. Whatever happens, someone like him always comes out on top.\u201d The idiots will always win, because maybe \u2013 like Shingy \u2013 they\u2019re actually smarter than you think they are. The future is now, and it\u2019s ridiculous. So why fight it? Instead let\u2019s raise a glass of Dutch wine to a character who is, in his own appalling way, a kind of hero. Keep it dusty, you bum pilots.", "tags": ["Comedy", "Charlie Brooker", "Life and style", "Chris Morris", "Culture", "Media", "Comedy", "Television"], "title": "Totally Mexico! How the Nathan Barley nightmare came true"},{"date": "2015-01-07T00:15:07Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Barack Obama has pledged support for the Mexican government despite calls for him to withhold aid to the country\u2019s security forces following a string of incidents in which military troops and police have been implicated in torture, extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances.After meeting with his embattled Mexican counterpart Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Tuesday, Obama said: \u201cOur commitment is to be a friend and supporter of Mexico in its efforts to eliminate the scourge of violence and the drug cartels that are responsible for so much tragedy inside of Mexico.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto has faced a wave of protests against perceived corruption and impunity, fuelled in part by two high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses: in June, troops allegedly executed at least 15 suspected gang members in the town of Tlatlaya after they surrendered following a gun battle. In September, 43 student teachers disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered after they were attacked by police officers in the town of Iguala. As the two presidents met in Washington, nine civilians were reported to have been killed in clashes with troops in the western state of Michoacan. The state\u2019s federal security commissioner Alfredo Castillo said the confrontations in the town of Apatzigan began Tuesday morning when the army tried to take control of city hall, which had been held for days by civilians.Obama had been under pressure from groups including Human Rights Watch to withhold military aid to Mexico if it failed to rein in abuse. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office that Americans have been following the \u201ctragic events surrounding the students whose lives were lost.\u201d He said Pe\u00f1a Nieto described reforms he\u2019s initiated around the issues that were raised. But, he added: \u201cUltimately it will be up to Mexico and its law enforcement to carry out the decisions that need to be made.\u201dPe\u00f1a Nieto responded by thanking Obama for working with Mexico to improve security, \u201cespecially this clear challenge Mexico has to continue fighting organized crime.\u201dDozens of protestors gathered outside the White House, calling for justice in the case of the students. Protests had been planned in 11 US cities on Tuesday, to call for a suspension of US aid to Mexican security forces. \u201cPresident Obama should use his meeting to announce an end to the US military aid, which is helping Mexico\u2019s military, federal police and other security forces continue killing and disappearing innocents with our tax dollars \u2013 and with impunity,\u201d said activist Roberto Lovato, a visiting scholar at the UC Berkeley Center for Latino Policy Research, and one of the organisers of the #UStired2 campaign, which has organised the demonstrations.\u201cNot centring their meeting on the human rights crisis doesn\u2019t just seem clueless and out of touch. It\u2019s calculating and callous in extreme,\u201d said Lovato.Before Tuesday\u2019s meeting, Human Rights Watch called on Obama to warn Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto that he must do more to stop abuses \u2013 or risk losing a portion of aid within a security and justice aid package, known as the M\u00e9rida initiative, which is legally conditioned on the country\u2019s human rights record.\u201cYou should make it clear that if Mexico is unable to show significant results in prosecuting human rights crimes, your administration will no longer be able to certify that the human rights requirements in the M\u00e9rida initiative have been been met,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch\u2019s director, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, in an open letter.\u201cThe United States could play an important role in helping Mexico address this crisis,\u201d Vivanco wrote. \u201cUnfortunately, however, your administration has been sending precisely the wrong message by failing to enforce the human rights requirements included in the M\u00e9rida Initiative.\u201dSenator Patrick Leahy, of the Senate subcommittee on state and foreign operations, has also questioned the release of aid conditioned on human rights.\u201cMexican officials say they take these issues seriously, but the situation has not improved,\u201d said Tim Rieser, a spokesman for Leahy, the author of those human rights guidelines in the programme.\u201c[Leahy\u2019s] continuing concern is that there appears to be a perception within some elements of the Mexican army and police that you can commit murder and get away with it \u2013 and that people in positions of authority will cover it up,\u201d said Rieser.So far, however, officials in Washington, have been reluctant to make waves with one of America\u2019s staunchest allies in its so-called \u201cwar on drugs\u201d, said Maureen Meyer, senior associate for Mexico and Migrant Rights at the Washington Office on Latin America.\u201cI think the US has been very tepid, publicly, in raising its concerns,\u201d she said.A week before the disappearance of the students \u2013 and nearly three months after the alleged executions in Tlatlaya \u2013 the State Department sent a positive assessment of the human rights record of Mexico\u2019s authorities to Congress.US officials insist they continue to bring up human rights issues informally with Mexico \u2013 and said that they will do at Tuesday\u2019s \u201cbilateral dialogue\u201d. The meeting has been primarily billed as focused on issues such as trade, energy, border security and immigration, as well as calls on the Mexican government to help pressure Cuba into making democratic reforms.A US senior official said the administration\u2019s security dialogue with Mexico revolved around working to improve law enforcement and judicial institutions and that it would \u201ccontinue to look for ways of working with Mexico on that\u201d.The official also said the administration was aware of the Human Rights Watch letter, and repeated earlier calls for a \u201cthorough and transparent investigation\u201d into the Iguala massacre. He added, \u201cWe know that the Mexican government has taken steps to carry out this investigation.\u201dThe Mexican government has arrested dozens of people so far over the Iguala massacre \u2013 most of whom are local police officers and members of the Guerreros Unidos. The former mayor of Iguala, who allegedly maintained close ties with the gang and ordered the attack on the students, is also in jail.The FBI is supporting the investigation by Mexican federal authorities, providing help with DNA analysis, the deputy foreign secretary, Sergio Alcocer, said last week.The Mexican government is also prosecuting several soldiers in relation to the alleged army massacre in Tlatlaya, though there has been no action stemming from the related evidence of a cover-up.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Obama backs Mexico government amid calls to suspend military aid"},{"date": "2015-03-27T19:16:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "With animal acts about to be banned from all circuses in Mexico, the fate of the non-human performers has become mired in acrimony and doubts over whether the legislation will actually lead to an improvement in animal protections.Rather than bring relief to the elephants, lions, tigers and other animals they currentlytransport around the country in cages, circus owners claim the ban in fact puts the animals in danger. Related: Bolivia bans all circus animals \u201cA lot of owners don\u2019t want to give the government the animals that are their livelihoods, and which they look after well,\u201d said Armando Cede\u00f1o, president of the national association of circus owners. \u201cSome are looking to sell them, and you don\u2019t always know who is buying. Others are so desperate they are thinking of putting them to sleep.\u201dBut the government of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto has brushed aside such warnings with promises of a bright future for Mexico\u2019s four-legged circus performers. The implementation of the ban is just three months away.\u201cWe will ensure that all the animals have top-level destinies that attend to their comfort and wellbeing,\u201d the chief environmental prosecutor, Guillermo Haro, told reporters earlier this month. Such optimism sounds a little glib given the vagueness of the legislation, the state\u2019s limited capacity to provide sanctuary and a long history of a black market trade in exotic species. All within the context of wildly varying estimates of how many circus animals there are.The ban explicitly gives Mexican zoos first pick of the animals. The rest, the legislation says, can be handed over to the authorities, though this is not obligatory.So far, the big public zoos have expressed little interest in the animals, given their tight budgets, and other state-owned sanctuaries do not have the infrastructure to receive more than a small number. Expansions have been promised, as have arrangements with privately run sanctuaries, but how this will be arranged or funded remains a mystery.Although authorities have said that the owners could face legal action if they put their animals down, there has been almost no comment on the prospect of mass sales of old circus animals. A thriving black market in exotic species already feeds unregulated private collections \u2013 such as the tigers found in drug traffickers\u2019s mansions \u2013 as well as the trade in pelts.\u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to get a handle on what is going on,\u201d said Dilce Winders of the international animal rights group Peta that lobbied energetically in support of the Mexican ban. \u201cAnd the deadline is looming.\u201dWinders stresses that there is still very little solid information about the animals that will be needing a new home. This should come, theoretically, when the owners provide a census immediately after the ban comes into force in early July, but they currently claim it is about 4,000. The authorities say their existing registers suggest the number is closer to 2,500.Tim Phillips of Animal Defense International, a group which has been at the forefront of campaigns to ban circus animals across the world, has dismissed the larger figure as \u201ccircus propaganda\u201d, and the warnings of deaths and mass sales as \u201coutrageous threats\u201d designed to force some kind of compensation deal.Still, Phillips, who said ADI had been involved with the Mexican case from the start, added that the Mexican authorities seemed \u201ca bit overwhelmed\u201d in recent meetings and suggested they may soon announce a delay in implementation. ADI, Phillips said, had already \u201cemptied Bolivia\u201d of old circus animals with a number of \u201crescues\u201d in the wake of its ban in 2010. The group is currently finishing a similar operation in Peru, preparing to airlift 33 lions and a bear to sanctuaries in California and Colorado. Phillips expects ADI will be invited by Mexico to help place the animals and, perhaps, even to help enforce the ban.\u201cOften the countries most in need of animal protection laws are the ones with the least resources to enforce them,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are getting a taste of that in Mexico.\u201dPhillips said that he expected the numbers to fall dramatically as the most common species, such as llamas and horses, were sold off easily. He said some of the exotic ones might also \u201cdisappear\u201d, though he insisted that feeding the black market is a longstanding practice among circus owners and should not be blamed on the ban.\u201cWe have to be realistic,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is the last generation to suffer in circuses in Mexico it is a very positive thing.\u201dThe ban is already partially in action, thanks to local-level legislation in about a third of Mexico\u2019s states.Circus owner spokesman Cede\u00f1o said this has had a major impact on audiences for the family-based companies that set up their big tops in small towns and poor barrios across the country, forcing some to close down altogether.\u201cThey are killing the industry,\u201d he said.Cede\u00f1o insists the ban goes beyond concern for animal welfare and is \u2013 at least partially \u2013 a cover for powerfully connected people seeking a cut from selling off valuable animals appropriated from the circuses. Related: Circuses to be banned from using wild animals The evidence is suspect, but such stories gain some traction in Mexico thanks to the dubious reputation of the Green party, which has been the ban\u2019s main promoter and whose leadership is mired in allegations of corruption.They have also previously used publicity campaigns that have had little to do with environmental issues. One candidate used an elephant to launch his campaign in 2012, and the Green party governor of the state of Chiapas gave a key position to a businessman who boasted of his exploits hunting elephants in Botswana.But animal rights activists insist that none of this is relevant to the task at hand.\u201cNo political party has a good reputation in Mexico,\u201d said Leonora Esquivel of the group AnimaNaturalis that has worked closely with the Green party on the ban. \u201cOur responsibility is to ensure that this opportunity results in the end to the exploitation and mistreatment of animals in circuses.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Circus", "Stage", "Animals"], "title": "Mexico deadline to ban circus animals looms but doubt shrouds creatures' fate"},{"date": "2015-03-22T07:00:04Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Elisa Guerra is a teacher at Colegio Valle de Filadelfia in Mexico. She set up the school in 2004 and this year is opening two new institutions in Brazil and Costa Rica.   I originally wanted to be a writer and studied Hispanic literature in college. My father lost his job so I was only able to stay for one term. I had to leave to help support my family. For a couple of years I was a model. My mum owned a clothes shop and I used to be in her fashion shows. That led to work in magazines and commercials. It was fun for a 19-year-old, but had little meaning. I didn\u2019t want to be on the cover of a magazine because of my looks, I wanted to be there because of something I\u2019d done.Having children inspired me to become a teacher. In my twenties I got married and had children \u2013 they\u2019re now aged 12, 17 and 20. At first I was a stay-at-home mum and I had all of this time with my son. I wanted it to be joyful and for him to love books like I do, so I began teaching him. I started reading everything I could find on education and took a course in Philadelphia, US, at the Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential. It\u2019s an amazing international organisation that specialises in working with children with brain damage as well as those who are healthy. It taught me about brain development and how to create the right environment for learning. After I completed the course, I started volunteering with the organisation. I now run their office for Latin America and teach parents about child development. A lot of it is about helping families realise that all is not lost and that their kids can learn to do many things. When I looked for a pre-school for my children there was nowhere I liked, so I created one myself. The places in my city were very traditional. My eldest son attended one for a while, and although he enjoyed parts of it, he kept saying, \u201cI get bored, we do the same things every day\u201d.I got together with a friend and we rented a house. My father was back in work and he gave me $2,000 (\u00a31,341) to help with costs. At the beginning we weren\u2019t earning, but then the school grew and after a few years we had 100 students. Five years later my friend and I went our separate ways, as we had different views on how the project should develop.In 2004, I sold my car for $15,000 (\u00a310,064) and set up another school. For the first year it was tough, because I was doing everything \u2013 acting as the principal, answering the phones, teaching classes, and being a mum. My husband wasn\u2019t helpful, and I\u2019m a single mother now. This made me realise that I had to make things happen for the project and my family \u2013 I support everyone now on my income. And I was very lucky because I got to go to work every day with my kids in tow. I know that most people can\u2019t do that. My children have been a huge part of the project. The pre-school has grown to 164 students and we go up to ninth grade now. It\u2019s a private school, and our students are mainly middle class, but we offer scholarships.In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them.This year we\u2019re opening schools in Costa Rica and Brazil, and I have schools in four other Mexican cities. I never intended to set up places elsewhere, but a mum and pre-school teacher who sent her son to my original school moved to another city and asked if we could open something there. I didn\u2019t have the money, so we came up with a franchise model. It\u2019s still very personal though, the directors own the school but I train the teachers and visit when I can. The other schools have stemmed from people approaching me.The model the schools are based on is focused on ensuring students explore a wide range of subjects and have the space to pursue their interests. We follow the national curriculum, but we have an enrichment curriculum on top of that. It covers art and music, and each month we look at a different country in detail. Teaching children about diversity is important and the textbooks I\u2019ve written always include an element of learning about other ways of life. I started writing them because I didn\u2019t think the ones available in Mexico were challenging enough. It was a long journey to getting published, I started out printing them for students on a Xerox machine until the publisher Pearson took them on.I recently travelled to schools in China, Japan and South Korea as part of a research project. They have a great respect for teachers in these countries, which we don\u2019t have in Mexico. The climate here isn\u2019t very good; teachers tend to be seen as lazy or troublemakers. People who go on protests are viewed particularly negatively. In December last year, 43 trainee teachers disappeared and we still don\u2019t know what happened to them. No bodies have been found, but we presume that they\u2019re dead. The media has reported that the authorities paid the local drug cartel to kill them. I love my country, but we have a saying, \u201cYou hurt me, Mexico\u201d. It is very painful to see what is happening because of corruption. I don\u2019t know why the profession isn\u2019t valued. I remember interviewing a girl fresh out of college for a position. She wanted to be a teacher because she said she was looking for something \u201ceasy and not stressful\u201d to do. That\u2019s the last thing she\u2019d find in the profession. There\u2019s no easy way to change things, but it has to start with teacher training. I\u2019ve never been formally trained, but my country introduced a programme that was a real blessing for me. If you have five years experience teaching, but don\u2019t have a degree in education, then you can take a national exam to gain a certificate. I ranked first in the country and was able to do a masters in education. Many of my colleagues have been formally trained, though, and I know that courses are very poor. They focus a lot on theory and very little on what it means to teach. We can only really change things by showing respect for the profession and improving training.", "tags": ["Teacher Network", "Education", "Professional development", "Australian education", "US education", "Teaching", "Primary schools", "Secondary schools", "Schools", "Private schools"], "title": "Mexican teachers are not respected \u2013 but we can create a better future"},{"date": "2015-03-12T19:50:27Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexican officials reportedly offered up to $20m in tax incentives to Sony Pictures and MGM in return for changes to be made to the next James Bond film, in an apparent attempt to combat the country\u2019s negative image. According to a report on the US website Tax Analysts, Mexico offered incentives in exchange for changes to to the script of Spectre, including a request for a Mexican Bond girl and a non-Mexican villain.Shooting for the latest instalment of the Bond franchise, to be directed by Sam Mendes, is due to begin next week.The report, based on internal Sony emails that were posted online by hackers purportedly linked to North Korea, said that studio executives from Sony Pictures Entertainment and MGM pressured for changes to the script to secure the incentives. \u201cYou have done a great job in getting us the Mexican incentive,\u201d wrote Jonathan Glickman, president of MGM\u2019s motion picture group, in an email to the film\u2019s producers. \u201cLet\u2019s continue to pursue whatever avenues we have available to maximize this incentive.\u201dMexico\u2019s requests for changes to the film script went much further than the conditions governments typically attach to filming deals, Tax Analysts reported.The studio apparently allowed Mexican authorities to \u201cmake casting decisions, dictate characters\u2019 ethnicities, and even change the occupation of an unnamed character that never appears on-screen or figures into the story outside of the opening scene\u201d, the website reported.The film\u2019s original script reportedly included an assassin named Sciarra with his sights on the mayor of Mexico City. Officials insisted that Sciarra \u201ccannot be Mexican\u201d and preferred that his target be an international leader.The Mexicans also reportedly demanded a Bond girl role for \u201ca known Mexican actress\u201d. This part of the deal, at least, appears to have been secured with the announcement last week that Stephanie Sigman had been cast in the movie.Sigman, ironically, made her name in the critically acclaimed low-budget Mexican film Miss Bala, in which she plays a poverty-stricken beauty tossed around the underworld of drug violence facilitated by police corruption. At the presentation of the film in Toronto, director Gerardo Naranjo called it \u201cthe story of a crumbling country\u201d.Mexican officials appeared eager to avoid any hint of such a negative portrayal of their country: in his email to the producer, Glickman said that highlighting Mexico City\u2019s \u201cmodern aspects\u201d could help the producers obtain an extra $6m of tax breaks. In another email, former head of Sony Pictures Amy Pascal suggested that travel footage could help the producers secure additional funding. \u201cWe should insist they add whatever travelogue footage we need in Mexico to get the extra money,\u201d she wrote.The emails also suggest Mexican officials wanted to replace a cage fight with a chase through Mexico\u2019s famed Day of the Dead celebrations, as well as include impressive aerial shots of the capital\u2019s skyline when Bond steals Sciarra\u2019s helicopter.Although the Mexican institutions involved have not been revealed, the attempt to massage the country\u2019s image fits into a wider context of determined efforts by the authorities to play down the country\u2019s security crisis, after a decade of drug-fuelled violence that has killed about 100,000 people.President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto was elected in 2012 with the help of a slick publicity campaign that made much of his telenovela good looks and telenovela star wife. His first 18 months in office were marked by a public relations crusade aimed at convincing the world that the country\u2019s long-running security crisis was a minor problem, trumped by his modernising economic vision.Today that image has been badly tarnished by emblematic atrocities that cannot be ignored, such as the disappearance of 43 students in September after they were attacked by police in league with a drug cartel.", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Film", "James Bond", "Culture", "Film industry", "Americas"], "title": "License to shill: Mexico pays James Bond film studios millions to shoot its good side"},{"date": "2015-03-09T21:52:21Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A scathing UN report has sharply rebuked Mexico for its widespread problem with torture, which it said implicates all levels of the security apparatus in the context of the government\u2019s efforts to combat crime.\u201cTorture and ill treatment during detention are generalized in Mexico, and occur in a context of impunity,\u201d the UN special rapporteur on torture, Juan M\u00e9ndez, wrote in the report he presented on Monday before the Human Rights Commission in Geneva.The report was based on a fact-finding mission M\u00e9ndez made to Mexico last spring, and says methods used include beatings, electric shocks, suffocation, waterboarding, forced nudity and rape, as well as threats and insults. Related: UN: parents of missing Mexican student teachers are at risk and need protection M\u00e9ndez\u2019s report links torture in Mexico to government efforts to combat the country\u2019s drug cartels, saying the majority of cases he studied involved victims detained for alleged links with organized crime. He also implicates local, state and federal police in the practice, as well as the armed forces. The army and navy\u2019s role in public security operations escalated dramatically when President Felipe Calder\u00f3n launched a major offensive against organized crime at the end of 2006. His successor, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, has made few major changes to the strategy since he took office at the end of 2012.The number of complaints of torture made to the National Human Rights Commission rose from an average of 320 a year before the offensive to 2,100 in 2012. They have fallen by nearly a third during the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration, though the report notes that contributing factors remain largely unchanged, including the \u201ctolerance, indifference or complicity\u201d of some doctors, public defenders, prosecutors and judges.Highlighting that there were only five convictions for torture in Mexico between 2005 and 2013, the report concludes: \u201cThe safeguards are weak, particularly in the detection and prevention of torture in the initial moments, as well as in ensuring its rapid, impartial, independent and exhaustive investigation.\u201dAs well as recommending the withdrawal of the armed forces from its current domestic security role, M\u00e9ndez urges the elimination of the law allowing Mexican authorities to hold suspects for a period of 40 days prior to bringing charges as investigators seek to build cases against them, often with the help of forced confessions. Related: Mexico's missing students draw attention to 20,000 'vanished' others Mexico\u2019s representative in Geneva said the report\u2019s conclusion that torture is generalised \u201cdoes not correspond to reality, or reflect the huge efforts in my country to consolidate respect for human rights\u201d.In an interview with the newspaper La Jornada, Jorge Lom\u00f3naco said: \u201cMexico identifies a series of challenges it needs to attend to ensure the complete eradication of this practice.\u201dThe report comes in a context of rising global attention to human rights abuses in Mexico sparked by the disappearance of 43 students in the southern city of Iguala on 26 September, after they were attacked by municipal police allegedly working with a local drug gang.The federal investigation concluded that the students were killed on the same night, though some reject this version\u2019s reliance on confessions made by detained officers and alleged cartel members.The student case cast a shadow over President Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s state visit to the UK last week that was greeted by protests, including one organised by Amnesty International.The group\u2019s Americas director, Erika Guevara-Rosas, said Monday\u2019s UN report \u201chighlights a culture of impunity and brutality that we have been campaigning about for years\u201d.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Human rights", "United Nations", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "UN: torture in Mexico occurs with 'impunity' at hands of security forces"},{"date": "2015-03-06T10:25:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Let us bid us a fond farewell to Mexican president Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, who has been in the UK this week as part of a state visit. During his time here, he has travelled across the country, from London to Aberdeen, meeting the UK\u2019s most important representatives including all three party leaders and the Queen, and has signed a \u201cMemoranda of Understanding on Collaboration in the Energy Sector\u201d, with representatives from the UK oil and gas industry.The Queen spoke of the \u201cenduring friendship\u201d between Mexico and the UK, Nick Clegg remarked that he hoped the visit would usher in a \u201cnew era of UK-Mexico relations which will bring our people even closer together\u201d, and FCO minister Hugo Swire tweeted that he had found Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s speech \u201cinspiring\u201d.Even by the tawdry standards usually applied to British relations with Latin America, this takes some doing. Mexico is in the grip of an urgent human rights crisis, with Amnesty International describing torture as \u201cout of control\u201d and accusing police and security services of having \u201cblood on their hands\u201d. More than 100,000 people have been killed and more than 22,000 have disappeared since Mexico launched a \u201cwar on drugs\u201d in 2006. The most recent outrage in Mexico has been the disappearance and probable massacre of 43 students in Ayotzinapa, which Pe\u00f1a Nieto insisted had nothing to do with the Mexican authorities \u2013 despite growing evidence to the contrary. Related: UK trade deal finances 'dirty energy' projects in Mexico, says Greenpeace The kindest thing one could say about Pe\u00f1a Nieto with regards to the students of Ayotzinapa, the drug war, the murder of thousands and the threats to journalists who try to expose these crimes, is that he has been totally incompetent, unforgivably slow to react, and has failed to adhere to even the most anodyne of his pre-election promises to approach the problems with narcotrafficking from a less militaristic standpoint. This failure means Mexico\u2019s security services are still armed to the teeth, making it easier for them to commit exactly the sort of human rights violations condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups across the world.In light of these facts, David Cameron\u2019s vague assurance that he would \u201craise the human rights issue\u201d during Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s UK visit is laughable. The prime minister rightfully expresses horror when Isis militants behead captives to send a message to the west, and yet welcomes with open arms the president of a country in which innocent people are publicly beheaded by drug cartels in their hundreds, protected by a culture of silence and indifference.And yet we should expect nothing less from the west\u2019s attitude towards Latin America, which has been characterised by this kind of hypocrisy for centuries. Across the region, the US in particular has been unrestrained in its meddling with Latin American governments, frequently installing or befriending tyrants that submit to its will and then denouncing them as soon as they cease to be useful. Even now, the UK and the US are engaged in brazen hypocrisy in their attitudes towards the region \u2013 like, for example, Hugo Swire promising that he does not \u201cturn a blind eye\u201d to human rights violations in Colombia (our other unsavoury Latin American ally) at the same time as the Colombian press was reporting that the UK was providing specialist training to the notoriously violent Colombian military. The UK Foreign Office is yet to clarify its position on that.Similarly, US Congress is preparing to issue sanctions against Venezuela for human rights violations committed by the security forces during protests last year; an incredible feat of double standards, given that even Venezuela\u2019s harshest critics would concede the human rights situation there isn\u2019t even close to the crisis in Mexico, or \u2013 for that matter \u2013 Colombia. Far more likely the US is unhappy with Venezuela\u2019s hostility towards it, as well as its pivotal role in setting up a network of Bolivarian socialist governments across the region (including Bolivia, Ecuador, Cuba, Nicaragua) which have made it their mission to extricate themselves from economic dependence upon the country.Those who defend our foreign policy in Latin America would probably invoke realpolitik; they might argue that the west\u2019s hypocrisy is justifiable, given the need for nations to look out for their own interests. Whatever the reason, we shouldn\u2019t be under any illusion about the consequences of our double standards. It\u2019s not socialist leaders like Fidel Castro or the late Hugo Chavez who suffer from our actions; it\u2019s the region\u2019s poorest and most vulnerable people \u2013 like those 43 Mexican students.We owe it to them to do things differently.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "Mexico has a human rights crisis, so why welcome its president with open arms? | Ellie Mae O\u2019Hagan"},{"date": "2015-03-03T02:12:13Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico has called on the US Justice Department to monitor investigations into three US police shootings of Mexican nationals within the past month, arguing that the incidents \u201ccannot be seen in an isolated manner\u201d.The call follows the fatal shooting of Ernesto Javier Canepa D\u00edaz in Santa Ana, California, who was killed on Friday by local police during a robbery investigation, according to local news reports. Details of the incident remain sparse but a spokesman for Santa Ana police said three officers were dispatched to the scene after a suspect\u2019s car was identified. The suspect was shot dead during an altercation but it was unclear how many officers had unloaded their firearms. The spokesman said the district attorney was now handling the investigation and that all three officers had initially been placed on administrative leave.\u201cThe incident is deeply troubling and causes us great concern as it comes just after the recent deaths of Mexican nationals Antonio Zambrano Montes and Ruben Garc\u00eda Villalpando,\u201d the Mexican foreign ministry said in a statement. Related: Pasco autopsy contradicts police account that victim was not shot in back Zambrano-Montes, an orchard worker living in Pasco, Washington, was shot dead by local police on 10 February after he was reportedly seen throwing rocks at traffic. Video footage of the incident shows the 35-year-old running from police with his arms raised. He was unarmed.Villalpando, a 31-year-old father of four was shot dead by police in Euless, Texas, on 20 February. The Mexican national was also unarmed and family members claim he had his hands up at the time of the shooting.Mexican consulate officials have condemned all three incidents, but intervention in D\u00edaz\u2019s case marks the first time the foreign ministry has called for the Justice Department to monitor the shootings.The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from the Guardian.\u201cBecause these incidents cannot be seen as isolated cases, the government of Mexico has called the Justice Department of the United States to follow the investigations of these cases through its Civil Rights Division and provide assurances that they are conducted with transparency and if necessary, that civil and criminal responsibilities are established,\u201d the foreign ministry said on Monday.\u201cAt the same time, Mexico joins several civil society organizations in their urgent call to move forward the review of use of force policies and practices.\u201dThe comments stood in stark contrast to the Mexican government\u2019s tendency to play down widespread and well-documented abuses committed by its own security forces. Related: Mexican man dies during violent police response to teachers protest in Acapulco Six people died and 43 others disappeared last September when a bus convoy carrying a party of student teachers was attacked by municipal police officers, allegedly in league with a local drug cartel.Mexican security forces are also routinely accused of torture in reports by international human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.Last month the UN committee on enforced disappearances berated the government for not doing enough to tackle what it called the \u201cgeneralized\u201d problem of disappearances, including many that involved state agents, such as the police.Mexican police often face regular accusations of using excessive force against protestors. Last week, a 65-year-old man who walked with a cane died after receiving head injuries during a violent police operation to break up a demonstration of radical teachers in the resort city of Acapulco.A national poll published by the company GEA last November found that only 10% of Mexicans said they trusted the police. Calls for a federal intervention in the Zambrano-Montes case have steadily mounted since the shooting. Small protests in Pasco continued over the weekend as an independent autopsy argued Zambrano-Montes was shot twice from behind, in direct contradiction to police statements.The shooting is being investigated by a group of 15 officers from neighbouring police forces, sparking criticisms of a lack of impartiality. The matter will also be the subject of a coroner\u2019s inquiry, where a jury of six Pasco residents, at least three of whom will be Hispanic, will determine if a case for criminal liability exists. The judgement will be non-binding.On Monday the National Fraternal Order of Police, the country\u2019s largest law enforcement union, issued a statement describing Zambrano-Montes\u2019s death as a \u201ctragedy\u201d but expressing confidence in the police investigation.\u201cAll of the officers involved in this incident have served Pasco honorably and effectively. Each of them is entitled to the same presumptions and due process rights which are extended to any citizen in these sad circumstances,\u201d the statement said.", "tags": ["US policing", "Mexico", "Washington state", "US news", "Texas", "California", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mexico calls on US to monitor investigations of fatal police shootings"},{"date": "2015-05-17T06:30:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For the children of undocumented Mexican migrants in the United States, life demands secrecy. They learn to navigate between the two cultures while hiding their illegal status \u2013 all the while praying for immigration reform. Their Mexican memories \u2013 if they remember at all \u2013 are replaced by American dreams. After a few years, they often feel, look and sound so American, they can forget that, in the eyes of the law, they are aliens.But they are, and they can be arrested at any moment. At least 500,000 young adults who grew up in the US have been deported or have decided to return to Mexico in the past decade. For many it is akin to arriving in a foreign country for the second time, but this time they lack a child\u2019s ability to acclimatise. For years, little was known about what happened to these youngsters, but a picture is now emerging of a well-educated, bilingual, bicultural group whose traumas and talents are being ignored. This is in part due to groups trying to raise awareness of their plight. One such network is Los Otros Dreamers \u2013 the Other Dreamers. The name is a reference to the young migrants who would benefit from the Dream Act, a US bill first introduced in 2001, but still not passed, which would have paved the way to citizenship for those brought to the US as children.Some of these \u201cdreamers\u201d were deported after failed immigration cases or minor offences; many were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others came back with their parents, or were exasperated at not being able to get a driving licence, work legally or attend university. Fewer than half of American states accept undocumented migrants at university. Regardless of why they returned, many struggle to adjust.Dr William Perez, a professor of education at Claremont Graduate University, California, recently interviewed almost 300 returnees aged 18-30, as part of his research into undocumented students. Half reported mental-health problems such as depression and anxiety, while 85% have suffered discrimination since returning to Mexico. Many have become demoralised by bureaucratic obstacles preventing them from continuing their education. \u201cThese young people have got huge unmet needs, but also huge potential. They\u2019re stuck doing crappy jobs because the government hasn\u2019t had that lightbulb moment. This group could help solve Mexico\u2019s enormous deficiency in naturalised English speakers,\u201d says Dr Perez.There are some positive signs. In March 2014, the Mexican government launched Somos Mexicanos \u2013 We are Mexican \u2013 its first programme to help returnees reintegrate by expediting access to ID papers, healthcare, education and jobs. Progress has been slow, but the Dreamers are at least on the radar.President Obama\u2019s controversial immigration order last November means around 1.5 million Dreamers are now eligible for temporary legal status. It\u2019s another sticking-plaster fix and ignores all those already deported who would qualify. Obama, who has presided over two million deportations, and is nicknamed the Deporter-in-Chief, has limited legislative options in the face of opposition from the Republican Party. \u201cThere\u2019s so much historical resentment and misunderstanding between Mexico and America,\u201d says Dr Perez, \u201cbut these young people feel an affinity towards both, which should make them a natural bridge between both countries. Currently, they\u2019re rejected by both.\u201dMaggie was a toddler when her family migrated from a tiny agricultural village in Mexico to Dalton, Georgia. \u201cI always knew we were undocumented, but I was 16 when I started to understand what that really meant. Without a social security number, I couldn\u2019t get a driver\u2019s permit. I wanted to be a nurse, but couldn\u2019t apply for scholarships, which made tuition fees three times higher. I even got turned away from a part-time job at Taco Bell.\u201dIn June 2008, a month after she had turned 18 and graduated from high school with top grades, Maggie decided to return to Mexico alone, because she didn\u2019t want to live a lie. \u201cI kept hoping the law would change so I could get my papers and be legal, but it didn\u2019t. I was very attached to God and the Catholic Church, and I didn\u2019t want to break the law, so I said my goodbyes.\u201dMaggie\u2019s parents paid $500 (\u00a3325) to a man-with-a-van to drive her 1,600 miles to San Luis Potos\u00ed. \u201cI had actually started to regret my decision as we approached the border, because I suddenly realised that there would be no way back.\u201dShe was dropped off at a petrol station at 3am, hours later than expected. \u201cI didn\u2019t recognise anything, but thankfully found a taxi that took me to my family village about half an hour away, where my grandfather and aunt were waiting for me. In the village there was a problem with the electricity, so there were no hot showers or washing machines \u2013 I had to heat water on a fire and have bucket baths and wash my clothes in the river. It was a shock. The first three months felt like someone had died. The grief was so strong, I couldn\u2019t do anything, I couldn\u2019t believe I\u2019d left my whole life to come here.\u201dHer parents moved back a couple of years later and bought a house and a convenience store with the money they\u2019d saved in the US working in restaurants and cleaning. They were glad to be home, but Maggie couldn\u2019t settle.Maggie\u2019s US school certificates were finally validated by Mexican authorities last year, so she could start college and get her life back on track. She\u2019s studying for a tourism degree, while working in the all-American Domino\u2019s Pizza. \u201cI\u2019m bilingual, bicultural and I want to be binational, so I\u2019m free to cross the border to my home, where I spent my childhood, to see friends and family. I\u2019m starting to love Mexico, to see a future here, but I have a lot to offer both countries, which neither government understands or appreciates.\u201dViridiana was at college in Davenport, Iowa, studying radiology in 2011, when her father, a chef, was picked up in an immigration raid and deported back to Le\u00f3n after more than 20 years of living in the US.\u201cMy younger brother and sister are US citizens as they were born in Iowa, and my parents had invested everything into buying our own house. What we\u2019d had in Le\u00f3n was long gone. But we decided to go back to join my dad, to try and keep the family together. Only my older sister stayed. It felt like we were leaving home, not going home.\u201dThe euphoria of being reunited with her father and extended family lasted only a few hours. \u201cI went to bed that first night and all I could think was, \u2018What have I done?\u2019 We went for a walk the next morning and the graffiti and trash and rows of tiny houses without any yards just made me feel so sad, it was so different to home.\u201dIt took a year to get the younger children, aged 14 and 15, back into school, as the family struggled to meet the demands of the education ministry. \u201cMy brother\u2019s Spanish wasn\u2019t great and he got really bullied at school. We had the wrong accents, wore the wrong clothes, we were too American. Even within our family we felt stigmatised. I couldn\u2019t get into college or get a job as I didn\u2019t have the right paperwork, and sank into a deep depression, barely leaving the house for over a year.\u201dViridiana\u2019s despair deepened when President Obama handed a reprieve to young undocumented migrants, the Dreamers, just a few months after she had left. \u201cIt was like a punch in the face. I felt happy for my sister and friends who qualified, but I was so angry with the US government, and with myself for making such a bad decision.\u201dUnable to settle, in 2013 she decided to go back as a mojada, or \u201cwetback\u201d, the colloquial name given to undocumented migrants who cross the border. But after a few disastrous months in a dangerous border town trying to find a guide, she turned back.\u201cI was desperate to get back. But, there was so much violence at the border \u2013 dismembered bodies of women were turning up \u2013 that I realised it wasn\u2019t worth risking my life for.\u201dViridiana still misses the snow, friends and her favourite ice cream, and hasn\u2019t given up hope of returning to the US legally one day \u2013 she isn\u2019t banned as she wasn\u2019t deported.\u201cLife isn\u2019t easy here, but we can make it. Sometimes I still pretend that I am just visiting, that soon I\u2019ll be home. But most of the time my mind is on a different track now, I know I have to get on with it, and I want to show the US that they lost someone great.\u201dEric was five years old when he crossed the border with two cousins and a \u201ccoyote\u201d \u2013 an illegal guide paid by their parents to take them from Michoac\u00e1n to Portland, Oregon. His father was already there, his mother joined them a month later, and so began his new life. \u201cI was so small when I left Mexico that I didn\u2019t remember it all. Of course, I spoke Spanish at home and we ate Mexican food, but I grew up feeling American. I wanted to be a marine.\u201dIn December 2009, Eric was an average 10th-grade student struggling to pass maths. After school he hung out with friends at the mall, loved jazz and hip-hop, and played football for his school team, a devoted Portland Timbers and Manchester United fan. By this time, his parents had split up and his dad, a printer, was a legal citizen, having remarried an American. \u201cMy dad applied to get me a visa so I could travel to Mexico to visit my sick grandmother and apply to the marines. On the second day of the interview, the immigration officer said I was being deported because of my criminal background. I had never been in trouble with the police and they wouldn\u2019t tell me what I had supposedly done, only that there was no way to appeal. I was taken to a detention centre, handcuffed and was on a plane to Mexico City that night. It was like a bomb had dropped into my life. I was 17.\u201dMost probably, Eric had been confused with someone else, but he\u2019ll almost certainly never know for sure. Eric arrived in Mexico City at around midnight with only the phone number of an aunt and uncle who his dad had said would help him, but he had never met. \u201cI felt totally alone as I waited for them to come and pick me up \u2013 I had no idea if they\u2019d accept me or not. I kept thinking about home, I hadn\u2019t had the chance to say goodbye to my friends or even speak with my mum. Those first few hours were so scary.\u201dHe moved in with his relatives just outside Mexico City, and his cousins tried to help him adjust, but he didn\u2019t fit in. \u201cPeople kept making fun of my Spanish, it felt like I couldn\u2019t say a sentence without making a mistake. I felt like a foreigner, it really hurt.\u201dFor the first three years, he was depressed, could barely eat and lost a lot of weight. But most of all he felt very scared. His mother had returned to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n in 2011 and he was stunned by the \u201cnarco\u201d violence. One evening, a carload of armed men in balaclavas pulled up alongside Eric and his friend. \u201cThey asked us to join them, the Knights Templar cartel, it was terrifying, but thankfully they let us go when we said no. There were gun battles in the streets most nights, lots of people were being killed, I wasn\u2019t sure I would survive.\u201dToday, Eric says he still misses feeling safe, \u201cbut I do now feel 80% Mexican \u2013 and people don\u2019t laugh at my Spanish any more. Maybe one day I\u2019ll make it back to America \u2013 I still dream about joining the marines.\u201dIn the 20 years that Nancy lived in Los Angeles, she only told a handful of people that her family was undocumented. Still, she overcame the obstacles to sail through high school, and became the first in her family to go to college, graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and business administration.Around that time, her parents, a builder and a textiles worker, filed an immigration case to obtain legal status with the help of a notary. It looked positive: they got social security numbers and temporary work permits, which helped Nancy to find good jobs, first as an NGO fundraiser and then for a state politician. But the notary kept making excuses while taking their money. In 2008, Nancy discovered that removal orders had been issued against the family years earlier. \u201cWe were victims of fraud, but there was nothing we could do, just hope that Obama would follow through with immigration reforms. I even campaigned for him. It was then I told my boyfriend about my status, though I never thought they\u2019d deport me.\u201dThey got her a year later, flagging her down while she was driving to work, put her in the deportation van and carried on with their raids. \u201cThe nightmare began. I was dropped off in Tijuana at 8pm [at a repatriation centre], without any ID, my phone battery dead, and nowhere to go. I had $20.\u201dNancy called a friend in LA for help, who agreed to drive down with her laptop, some money and clothes. \u201cThis was at the height of the violence in Tijuana and I was terrified to leave the centre, so I just hung around the transit area until my friend arrived at 1am. Even then, I was still thinking I\u2019d be able to fight the case. I didn\u2019t understand that I\u2019d spent my last day in LA, my home since I was nine.\u201dIt took more than a month to obtain Mexican ID, and several months to find a job in a call centre. \u201cI felt like a complete nobody during the first four years in Mexico, like everything I\u2019d done in the US counted for nothing.\u201d Although the education ministry would not accept her Californian degree, the UK would. She moved to London in September 2013 to study for a master\u2019s in migration at University College London. \u201cLondon helped me recover my dignity. I was free to cross borders, explore, prove to the US that I could be trusted. Returning to Mexico from London the proper way, like everyone else, also gave me some closure. I know I need to go back to LA to close the circle completely.\u201d If Nancy hadn\u2019t been deported, she would probably qualify under President Obama\u2019s most recent immigration order as a Dreamer. Instead, she has a 10-year entry ban.\u201cDreamers don\u2019t stop dreaming just because they\u2019re deported. We have strong ties to both countries, so stop ignoring us, stop stigmatising us. We understand both cultures, so start using us for transnational policy issues. We\u2019re an untapped gold mine that only the call-centre industry is exploiting.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Deported to Mexico: a lost generation"},{"date": "2015-05-17T06:30:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For the children of undocumented Mexican migrants in the United States, life demands secrecy. They learn to navigate between the two cultures while hiding their illegal status \u2013 all the while praying for immigration reform. Their Mexican memories \u2013 if they remember at all \u2013 are replaced by American dreams. After a few years, they often feel, look and sound so American, they can forget that, in the eyes of the law, they are aliens.But they are, and they can be arrested at any moment. At least 500,000 young adults who grew up in the US have been deported or have decided to return to Mexico in the past decade. For many it is akin to arriving in a foreign country for the second time, but this time they lack a child\u2019s ability to acclimatise. For years, little was known about what happened to these youngsters, but a picture is now emerging of a well-educated, bilingual, bicultural group whose traumas and talents are being ignored. This is in part due to groups trying to raise awareness of their plight. One such network is Los Otros Dreamers \u2013 the Other Dreamers. The name is a reference to the young migrants who would benefit from the Dream Act, a US bill first introduced in 2001, but still not passed, which would have paved the way to citizenship for those brought to the US as children.Some of these \u201cdreamers\u201d were deported after failed immigration cases or minor offences; many were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others came back with their parents, or were exasperated at not being able to get a driving licence, work legally or attend university. Fewer than half of American states accept undocumented migrants at university. Regardless of why they returned, many struggle to adjust.Dr William Perez, a professor of education at Claremont Graduate University, California, recently interviewed almost 300 returnees aged 18-30, as part of his research into undocumented students. Half reported mental-health problems such as depression and anxiety, while 85% have suffered discrimination since returning to Mexico. Many have become demoralised by bureaucratic obstacles preventing them from continuing their education. \u201cThese young people have got huge unmet needs, but also huge potential. They\u2019re stuck doing crappy jobs because the government hasn\u2019t had that lightbulb moment. This group could help solve Mexico\u2019s enormous deficiency in naturalised English speakers,\u201d says Dr Perez.There are some positive signs. In March 2014, the Mexican government launched Somos Mexicanos \u2013 We are Mexican \u2013 its first programme to help returnees reintegrate by expediting access to ID papers, healthcare, education and jobs. Progress has been slow, but the Dreamers are at least on the radar.President Obama\u2019s controversial immigration order last November means around 1.5 million Dreamers are now eligible for temporary legal status. It\u2019s another sticking-plaster fix and ignores all those already deported who would qualify. Obama, who has presided over two million deportations, and is nicknamed the Deporter-in-Chief, has limited legislative options in the face of opposition from the Republican Party. \u201cThere\u2019s so much historical resentment and misunderstanding between Mexico and America,\u201d says Dr Perez, \u201cbut these young people feel an affinity towards both, which should make them a natural bridge between both countries. Currently, they\u2019re rejected by both.\u201dMaggie was a toddler when her family migrated from a tiny agricultural village in Mexico to Dalton, Georgia. \u201cI always knew we were undocumented, but I was 16 when I started to understand what that really meant. Without a social security number, I couldn\u2019t get a driver\u2019s permit. I wanted to be a nurse, but couldn\u2019t apply for scholarships, which made tuition fees three times higher. I even got turned away from a part-time job at Taco Bell.\u201dIn June 2008, a month after she had turned 18 and graduated from high school with top grades, Maggie decided to return to Mexico alone, because she didn\u2019t want to live a lie. \u201cI kept hoping the law would change so I could get my papers and be legal, but it didn\u2019t. I was very attached to God and the Catholic Church, and I didn\u2019t want to break the law, so I said my goodbyes.\u201dMaggie\u2019s parents paid $500 (\u00a3325) to a man-with-a-van to drive her 1,600 miles to San Luis Potos\u00ed. \u201cI had actually started to regret my decision as we approached the border, because I suddenly realised that there would be no way back.\u201dShe was dropped off at a petrol station at 3am, hours later than expected. \u201cI didn\u2019t recognise anything, but thankfully found a taxi that took me to my family village about half an hour away, where my grandfather and aunt were waiting for me. In the village there was a problem with the electricity, so there were no hot showers or washing machines \u2013 I had to heat water on a fire and have bucket baths and wash my clothes in the river. It was a shock. The first three months felt like someone had died. The grief was so strong, I couldn\u2019t do anything, I couldn\u2019t believe I\u2019d left my whole life to come here.\u201dHer parents moved back a couple of years later and bought a house and a convenience store with the money they\u2019d saved in the US working in restaurants and cleaning. They were glad to be home, but Maggie couldn\u2019t settle.Maggie\u2019s US school certificates were finally validated by Mexican authorities last year, so she could start college and get her life back on track. She\u2019s studying for a tourism degree, while working in the all-American Domino\u2019s Pizza. \u201cI\u2019m bilingual, bicultural and I want to be binational, so I\u2019m free to cross the border to my home, where I spent my childhood, to see friends and family. I\u2019m starting to love Mexico, to see a future here, but I have a lot to offer both countries, which neither government understands or appreciates.\u201dViridiana was at college in Davenport, Iowa, studying radiology in 2011, when her father, a chef, was picked up in an immigration raid and deported back to Le\u00f3n after more than 20 years of living in the US.\u201cMy younger brother and sister are US citizens as they were born in Iowa, and my parents had invested everything into buying our own house. What we\u2019d had in Le\u00f3n was long gone. But we decided to go back to join my dad, to try and keep the family together. Only my older sister stayed. It felt like we were leaving home, not going home.\u201dThe euphoria of being reunited with her father and extended family lasted only a few hours. \u201cI went to bed that first night and all I could think was, \u2018What have I done?\u2019 We went for a walk the next morning and the graffiti and trash and rows of tiny houses without any yards just made me feel so sad, it was so different to home.\u201dIt took a year to get the younger children, aged 14 and 15, back into school, as the family struggled to meet the demands of the education ministry. \u201cMy brother\u2019s Spanish wasn\u2019t great and he got really bullied at school. We had the wrong accents, wore the wrong clothes, we were too American. Even within our family we felt stigmatised. I couldn\u2019t get into college or get a job as I didn\u2019t have the right paperwork, and sank into a deep depression, barely leaving the house for over a year.\u201dViridiana\u2019s despair deepened when President Obama handed a reprieve to young undocumented migrants, the Dreamers, just a few months after she had left. \u201cIt was like a punch in the face. I felt happy for my sister and friends who qualified, but I was so angry with the US government, and with myself for making such a bad decision.\u201dUnable to settle, in 2013 she decided to go back as a mojada, or \u201cwetback\u201d, the colloquial name given to undocumented migrants who cross the border. But after a few disastrous months in a dangerous border town trying to find a guide, she turned back.\u201cI was desperate to get back. But, there was so much violence at the border \u2013 dismembered bodies of women were turning up \u2013 that I realised it wasn\u2019t worth risking my life for.\u201dViridiana still misses the snow, friends and her favourite ice cream, and hasn\u2019t given up hope of returning to the US legally one day \u2013 she isn\u2019t banned as she wasn\u2019t deported.\u201cLife isn\u2019t easy here, but we can make it. Sometimes I still pretend that I am just visiting, that soon I\u2019ll be home. But most of the time my mind is on a different track now, I know I have to get on with it, and I want to show the US that they lost someone great.\u201dEric was five years old when he crossed the border with two cousins and a \u201ccoyote\u201d \u2013 an illegal guide paid by their parents to take them from Michoac\u00e1n to Portland, Oregon. His father was already there, his mother joined them a month later, and so began his new life. \u201cI was so small when I left Mexico that I didn\u2019t remember it all. Of course, I spoke Spanish at home and we ate Mexican food, but I grew up feeling American. I wanted to be a marine.\u201dIn December 2009, Eric was an average 10th-grade student struggling to pass maths. After school he hung out with friends at the mall, loved jazz and hip-hop, and played football for his school team, a devoted Portland Timbers and Manchester United fan. By this time, his parents had split up and his dad, a printer, was a legal citizen, having remarried an American. \u201cMy dad applied to get me a visa so I could travel to Mexico to visit my sick grandmother and apply to the marines. On the second day of the interview, the immigration officer said I was being deported because of my criminal background. I had never been in trouble with the police and they wouldn\u2019t tell me what I had supposedly done, only that there was no way to appeal. I was taken to a detention centre, handcuffed and was on a plane to Mexico City that night. It was like a bomb had dropped into my life. I was 17.\u201dMost probably, Eric had been confused with someone else, but he\u2019ll almost certainly never know for sure. Eric arrived in Mexico City at around midnight with only the phone number of an aunt and uncle who his dad had said would help him, but he had never met. \u201cI felt totally alone as I waited for them to come and pick me up \u2013 I had no idea if they\u2019d accept me or not. I kept thinking about home, I hadn\u2019t had the chance to say goodbye to my friends or even speak with my mum. Those first few hours were so scary.\u201dHe moved in with his relatives just outside Mexico City, and his cousins tried to help him adjust, but he didn\u2019t fit in. \u201cPeople kept making fun of my Spanish, it felt like I couldn\u2019t say a sentence without making a mistake. I felt like a foreigner, it really hurt.\u201dFor the first three years, he was depressed, could barely eat and lost a lot of weight. But most of all he felt very scared. His mother had returned to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n in 2011 and he was stunned by the \u201cnarco\u201d violence. One evening, a carload of armed men in balaclavas pulled up alongside Eric and his friend. \u201cThey asked us to join them, the Knights Templar cartel, it was terrifying, but thankfully they let us go when we said no. There were gun battles in the streets most nights, lots of people were being killed, I wasn\u2019t sure I would survive.\u201dToday, Eric says he still misses feeling safe, \u201cbut I do now feel 80% Mexican \u2013 and people don\u2019t laugh at my Spanish any more. Maybe one day I\u2019ll make it back to America \u2013 I still dream about joining the marines.\u201dIn the 20 years that Nancy lived in Los Angeles, she only told a handful of people that her family was undocumented. Still, she overcame the obstacles to sail through high school, and became the first in her family to go to college, graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and business administration.Around that time, her parents, a builder and a textiles worker, filed an immigration case to obtain legal status with the help of a notary. It looked positive: they got social security numbers and temporary work permits, which helped Nancy to find good jobs, first as an NGO fundraiser and then for a state politician. But the notary kept making excuses while taking their money. In 2008, Nancy discovered that removal orders had been issued against the family years earlier. \u201cWe were victims of fraud, but there was nothing we could do, just hope that Obama would follow through with immigration reforms. I even campaigned for him. It was then I told my boyfriend about my status, though I never thought they\u2019d deport me.\u201dThey got her a year later, flagging her down while she was driving to work, put her in the deportation van and carried on with their raids. \u201cThe nightmare began. I was dropped off in Tijuana at 8pm [at a repatriation centre], without any ID, my phone battery dead, and nowhere to go. I had $20.\u201dNancy called a friend in LA for help, who agreed to drive down with her laptop, some money and clothes. \u201cThis was at the height of the violence in Tijuana and I was terrified to leave the centre, so I just hung around the transit area until my friend arrived at 1am. Even then, I was still thinking I\u2019d be able to fight the case. I didn\u2019t understand that I\u2019d spent my last day in LA, my home since I was nine.\u201dIt took more than a month to obtain Mexican ID, and several months to find a job in a call centre. \u201cI felt like a complete nobody during the first four years in Mexico, like everything I\u2019d done in the US counted for nothing.\u201d Although the education ministry would not accept her Californian degree, the UK would. She moved to London in September 2013 to study for a master\u2019s in migration at University College London. \u201cLondon helped me recover my dignity. I was free to cross borders, explore, prove to the US that I could be trusted. Returning to Mexico from London the proper way, like everyone else, also gave me some closure. I know I need to go back to LA to close the circle completely.\u201d If Nancy hadn\u2019t been deported, she would probably qualify under President Obama\u2019s most recent immigration order as a Dreamer. Instead, she has a 10-year entry ban.\u201cDreamers don\u2019t stop dreaming just because they\u2019re deported. We have strong ties to both countries, so stop ignoring us, stop stigmatising us. We understand both cultures, so start using us for transnational policy issues. We\u2019re an untapped gold mine that only the call-centre industry is exploiting.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Deported to Mexico: a lost generation"},{"date": "2015-04-11T10:51:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\u201cI suddenly had a clearer understanding than ever of the power that journalism has to give a voice to those who have been silenced by the crushing weight of violence.\u201dSo wrote Mexico\u2019s best-known journalist and human rights campaigner, Lydia Cacho, upon seeing her colleagues from the press gather to cover her arrival for interrogation before judges at Puebla, central Mexico, after what she calls a \u201clegal kidnap\u201d by the police.The first stage of that prolonged ordeal 10 years ago had been a terrifying 36-hour drive from her home in the coastal state of Quintana Roo to the courthouse and jail, during which she had been sexually violated, threatened with death and \u201cdisappearance\u201d, and horribly intimidated.Cacho was to be charged with libel after the publication of a book, The Demons of Eden, which revealed a sex-trafficking and pederast-paedophile ring with connections to power on high. The appalling story of power\u2019s revenge, its searing impact on Cacho and the implications of the affair for all reporters is told in a further book, Memorias de una Infamia (Memories of Infamy), in which, vindicated by subsequent events and trials, Cacho demonstrates that the pederasts and sex criminals were protected by the governor of Puebla state, by the judiciary and by people even higher up \u2013 with connections also to drug trafficking.The foreword is written by the one reporter who worked alongside Cacho during her ordeal, revealing crucial material \u2013 including phone taps \u2013 that swung the narrative from the jaws of incarceration and torture into her favour. This was Carmen Aristegui, Mexico\u2019s most famous broadcaster, who was sacked last month by her employer, MVS Radio, after revealing that the wife of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto had acquired a vast luxury property from a group that had won several lucrative government contracts.The fate of the two journalists has stirred to fever pitch the discourse about repression of free speech and the acute physical dangers faced by journalists in Mexico. Scores of reporters have been killed \u2013 often tortured and decapitated \u2013 in what is now seen as a pincer-movement against their work by drug cartels and the state.The Los Angeles Times reported: \u201cThe loss of one of Mexico\u2019s most critical journalistic voices comes as revelations of corruption and killings by police and the army have roiled the country and plunged Pe\u00f1a Nieto into the worst crisis of his 27-month presidency.\u201dWhile all this was happening last month, Pe\u00f1a Nieto was a guest of the Queen and the British government.Cacho \u2013 who has won innumerable awards for her work and was made a Chevalier d\u2019Honneur of the French Republic \u2013 will rally support this week for Aristegui and her endangered colleagues at the London Book Fair, part of a PEN festival focusing on Mexico.Ahead of her visit, Cacho told the Observer: \u201cAfter all these years, every time my mobile phone rings and I see the name of a colleague I fear the worst: assassination, kidnapping or forced disappearance. When I was arrested 10 years ago, I was not so well-known, at least not to the broader news readers; now I\u2019ve published 10 books and still live under tremendous pressure from corrupted politicians and traffickers who want me either dead or exiled and silenced.\u201dOf her friend, Cacho added: \u201cCarmen Aristegui is probably the most famous newscast journalist in our country. She was fired most probably for investigating the president, which happened months after I was fired from El Universal, one of the main national newspapers. If this is happening to us, the visible ones, can you imagine what local reporters are going through in the provinces, where rule of law is almost nonexistent?\u201dCacho thinks the timing of Aristegui\u2019s firing is accounted for by \u201cthe return of the PRI party, who ruled Mexico for more than 70 years. Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s advisers are obsessed with protecting his image at all costs. It seems they want us back into the 1980s, when nobody dared to investigate the president and his ministers.\u201cAristegui\u2019s team not only uncovered the fact that the president\u2019s wife and his finance minister, [Luis] Videgaray, had received a couple of luxurious residences from a big construction conglomerate that was doing business with the federal government; they also exposed a network of corruption, a radiography of how the president is managing the country\u2019s finances as if he was a feudal lord, as if laws, international treaties and transparency did not exist. This case exposes, once again, how a small group of politicians and tycoons handle all media permits in order to control freedom of expression, and they do so through monopolies and the destruction, persecution of free media and journalists.\u201dA report published by the London-based Article 19 organisation at the end of March and launched in Mexico City by Aristegui and Cacho \u2013 found that \u201cunder the current administration headed by Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the number of assaults on the press was nearly double that reported during [his predecessor] Felipe Calder\u00f3n\u2019s term of office \u2026 Failures in the justice system continue to prevail.\u201dAccording to a report by Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission in January, 97 reporters have been killed over the past four years for doing their job. There have been 22 disappearances of reporters and 433 registered attacks since 2005, when the current drug cartel war began in earnest.Just as the report appeared, a long line of murderous attacks on reporters in the state of Veracruz culminated in the discovery of the decapitated body of a freelance website reporter, Mois\u00e9s S\u00e1nchez, who had disappeared in the small town of Medell\u00edn de Bravo. The mayor of the town has been charged with having ordered the murder, but activists believe the attacks on reporters \u2013 13 in Veracruz alone \u2013 have been orchestrated on higher authority, in the state administration. Among the victims in Veracruz was Regina Mart\u00ednez, a reporter for Proceso magazine, who had been seeking to establish those connections. Her violated and tortured body was found in 2012.In her book, Cacho differentiates between \u201cfame\u201d, which she sees as something \u201cfor artists\u201d, and notoriety, which she says she has achieved simply by refusing to be silenced. Either way, her struggle has become what the great anti-mafia writer Roberto Saviano calls \u201cthe Lydia Cacho cause\u201d.In her London appearances, Cacho will also focus on violence against women, and lifting the impunity of those who violate them. Ahead of the visit she said: \u201cWhen Pe\u00f1a Nieto was governor of the state of Mexico [in the south of the country] the femicide rate went through the roof: up by 185%, according to specialist Humberto Padgett. Young women were being assassinated relentlessly. Some were taken by the cartels for sex trafficking; others, younger than 15, exploited as slaves in the opium and marijuana fields..\u201cPe\u00f1a Nieto denied everything; on his way to the presidency he could have been the hero, approving gender equality laws, forcing the justice system to act as law requires. Instead he ordered journalists to be quiet, his team bought some off, and the honest ones had to flee the region, or where threatened, or killed by unknown criminals\u201d.A woman of passion as well as courage, Cacho surveys the scene: \u201cThese are dark times for our country,\u201d she says by telephone from Quintana Roo. \u201cCivil society is confronting the powers that be, but the free media is becoming smaller day by day; narco lords rule some states and provinces. There are not enough hours in a day to help those voices that need listening to, those hundreds of thousands of victimised families that need seeing. Journalism is essential in a country that lives in a silenced war, a masked war. They can erase us journalists from the mainstream media, and they can eliminate us physically. What they will never be able to do is deny the true stories, snatch away my voice, our voices and our words. As long as we are alive we will continue to write and what we have written will keep us alive\u201d.Cacho recalls the last time she talked to her colleague and friend Anna Politkovskaya. \u201cWe laughed in a hotel room, we talked about family and children, about love and work, we discussed the risk of our jobs. One morning watching the news I froze as I heard she had been assassinated after coming back from buying food for her family. This fact made me aware of my own mortality.\u201dBut by way of a message to herald her arrival in Britain, Cacho insists: \u201cI am a woman who will not give up her rights, nor will I sacrifice the rights of others to have a comfortable living. Being a journalist in Mexico is not a job; it\u2019s a calling, a responsibility, never a sacrifice. It is to be part of the counter-power that makes life worth living.\u201dLydia Cacho will appear at a British Council event at the London Book Fair, Gallery Theatre, Kensington Olympia, on Tuesday; and for English PEN at the Free Word Centre, Farringdon Road, London, on Thursday. Slavery Inc: the Untold Story of International Sex Trafficking, is published by Portobello Books", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "Media", "World news"], "title": "'They want to erase journalists in Mexico'"},{"date": "2015-05-17T06:30:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For the children of undocumented Mexican migrants in the United States, life demands secrecy. They learn to navigate between the two cultures while hiding their illegal status \u2013 all the while praying for immigration reform. Their Mexican memories \u2013 if they remember at all \u2013 are replaced by American dreams. After a few years, they often feel, look and sound so American, they can forget that, in the eyes of the law, they are aliens.But they are, and they can be arrested at any moment. At least 500,000 young adults who grew up in the US have been deported or have decided to return to Mexico in the past decade. For many it is akin to arriving in a foreign country for the second time, but this time they lack a child\u2019s ability to acclimatise. For years, little was known about what happened to these youngsters, but a picture is now emerging of a well-educated, bilingual, bicultural group whose traumas and talents are being ignored. This is in part due to groups trying to raise awareness of their plight. One such network is Los Otros Dreamers \u2013 the Other Dreamers. The name is a reference to the young migrants who would benefit from the Dream Act, a US bill first introduced in 2001, but still not passed, which would have paved the way to citizenship for those brought to the US as children.Some of these \u201cdreamers\u201d were deported after failed immigration cases or minor offences; many were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others came back with their parents, or were exasperated at not being able to get a driving licence, work legally or attend university. Fewer than half of American states accept undocumented migrants at university. Regardless of why they returned, many struggle to adjust.Dr William Perez, a professor of education at Claremont Graduate University, California, recently interviewed almost 300 returnees aged 18-30, as part of his research into undocumented students. Half reported mental-health problems such as depression and anxiety, while 85% have suffered discrimination since returning to Mexico. Many have become demoralised by bureaucratic obstacles preventing them from continuing their education. \u201cThese young people have got huge unmet needs, but also huge potential. They\u2019re stuck doing crappy jobs because the government hasn\u2019t had that lightbulb moment. This group could help solve Mexico\u2019s enormous deficiency in naturalised English speakers,\u201d says Dr Perez.There are some positive signs. In March 2014, the Mexican government launched Somos Mexicanos \u2013 We are Mexican \u2013 its first programme to help returnees reintegrate by expediting access to ID papers, healthcare, education and jobs. Progress has been slow, but the Dreamers are at least on the radar.President Obama\u2019s controversial immigration order last November means around 1.5 million Dreamers are now eligible for temporary legal status. It\u2019s another sticking-plaster fix and ignores all those already deported who would qualify. Obama, who has presided over two million deportations, and is nicknamed the Deporter-in-Chief, has limited legislative options in the face of opposition from the Republican Party. \u201cThere\u2019s so much historical resentment and misunderstanding between Mexico and America,\u201d says Dr Perez, \u201cbut these young people feel an affinity towards both, which should make them a natural bridge between both countries. Currently, they\u2019re rejected by both.\u201dMaggie was a toddler when her family migrated from a tiny agricultural village in Mexico to Dalton, Georgia. \u201cI always knew we were undocumented, but I was 16 when I started to understand what that really meant. Without a social security number, I couldn\u2019t get a driver\u2019s permit. I wanted to be a nurse, but couldn\u2019t apply for scholarships, which made tuition fees three times higher. I even got turned away from a part-time job at Taco Bell.\u201dIn June 2008, a month after she had turned 18 and graduated from high school with top grades, Maggie decided to return to Mexico alone, because she didn\u2019t want to live a lie. \u201cI kept hoping the law would change so I could get my papers and be legal, but it didn\u2019t. I was very attached to God and the Catholic Church, and I didn\u2019t want to break the law, so I said my goodbyes.\u201dMaggie\u2019s parents paid $500 (\u00a3325) to a man-with-a-van to drive her 1,600 miles to San Luis Potos\u00ed. \u201cI had actually started to regret my decision as we approached the border, because I suddenly realised that there would be no way back.\u201dShe was dropped off at a petrol station at 3am, hours later than expected. \u201cI didn\u2019t recognise anything, but thankfully found a taxi that took me to my family village about half an hour away, where my grandfather and aunt were waiting for me. In the village there was a problem with the electricity, so there were no hot showers or washing machines \u2013 I had to heat water on a fire and have bucket baths and wash my clothes in the river. It was a shock. The first three months felt like someone had died. The grief was so strong, I couldn\u2019t do anything, I couldn\u2019t believe I\u2019d left my whole life to come here.\u201dHer parents moved back a couple of years later and bought a house and a convenience store with the money they\u2019d saved in the US working in restaurants and cleaning. They were glad to be home, but Maggie couldn\u2019t settle.Maggie\u2019s US school certificates were finally validated by Mexican authorities last year, so she could start college and get her life back on track. She\u2019s studying for a tourism degree, while working in the all-American Domino\u2019s Pizza. \u201cI\u2019m bilingual, bicultural and I want to be binational, so I\u2019m free to cross the border to my home, where I spent my childhood, to see friends and family. I\u2019m starting to love Mexico, to see a future here, but I have a lot to offer both countries, which neither government understands or appreciates.\u201dViridiana was at college in Davenport, Iowa, studying radiology in 2011, when her father, a chef, was picked up in an immigration raid and deported back to Le\u00f3n after more than 20 years of living in the US.\u201cMy younger brother and sister are US citizens as they were born in Iowa, and my parents had invested everything into buying our own house. What we\u2019d had in Le\u00f3n was long gone. But we decided to go back to join my dad, to try and keep the family together. Only my older sister stayed. It felt like we were leaving home, not going home.\u201dThe euphoria of being reunited with her father and extended family lasted only a few hours. \u201cI went to bed that first night and all I could think was, \u2018What have I done?\u2019 We went for a walk the next morning and the graffiti and trash and rows of tiny houses without any yards just made me feel so sad, it was so different to home.\u201dIt took a year to get the younger children, aged 14 and 15, back into school, as the family struggled to meet the demands of the education ministry. \u201cMy brother\u2019s Spanish wasn\u2019t great and he got really bullied at school. We had the wrong accents, wore the wrong clothes, we were too American. Even within our family we felt stigmatised. I couldn\u2019t get into college or get a job as I didn\u2019t have the right paperwork, and sank into a deep depression, barely leaving the house for over a year.\u201dViridiana\u2019s despair deepened when President Obama handed a reprieve to young undocumented migrants, the Dreamers, just a few months after she had left. \u201cIt was like a punch in the face. I felt happy for my sister and friends who qualified, but I was so angry with the US government, and with myself for making such a bad decision.\u201dUnable to settle, in 2013 she decided to go back as a mojada, or \u201cwetback\u201d, the colloquial name given to undocumented migrants who cross the border. But after a few disastrous months in a dangerous border town trying to find a guide, she turned back.\u201cI was desperate to get back. But, there was so much violence at the border \u2013 dismembered bodies of women were turning up \u2013 that I realised it wasn\u2019t worth risking my life for.\u201dViridiana still misses the snow, friends and her favourite ice cream, and hasn\u2019t given up hope of returning to the US legally one day \u2013 she isn\u2019t banned as she wasn\u2019t deported.\u201cLife isn\u2019t easy here, but we can make it. Sometimes I still pretend that I am just visiting, that soon I\u2019ll be home. But most of the time my mind is on a different track now, I know I have to get on with it, and I want to show the US that they lost someone great.\u201dEric was five years old when he crossed the border with two cousins and a \u201ccoyote\u201d \u2013 an illegal guide paid by their parents to take them from Michoac\u00e1n to Portland, Oregon. His father was already there, his mother joined them a month later, and so began his new life. \u201cI was so small when I left Mexico that I didn\u2019t remember it all. Of course, I spoke Spanish at home and we ate Mexican food, but I grew up feeling American. I wanted to be a marine.\u201dIn December 2009, Eric was an average 10th-grade student struggling to pass maths. After school he hung out with friends at the mall, loved jazz and hip-hop, and played football for his school team, a devoted Portland Timbers and Manchester United fan. By this time, his parents had split up and his dad, a printer, was a legal citizen, having remarried an American. \u201cMy dad applied to get me a visa so I could travel to Mexico to visit my sick grandmother and apply to the marines. On the second day of the interview, the immigration officer said I was being deported because of my criminal background. I had never been in trouble with the police and they wouldn\u2019t tell me what I had supposedly done, only that there was no way to appeal. I was taken to a detention centre, handcuffed and was on a plane to Mexico City that night. It was like a bomb had dropped into my life. I was 17.\u201dMost probably, Eric had been confused with someone else, but he\u2019ll almost certainly never know for sure. Eric arrived in Mexico City at around midnight with only the phone number of an aunt and uncle who his dad had said would help him, but he had never met. \u201cI felt totally alone as I waited for them to come and pick me up \u2013 I had no idea if they\u2019d accept me or not. I kept thinking about home, I hadn\u2019t had the chance to say goodbye to my friends or even speak with my mum. Those first few hours were so scary.\u201dHe moved in with his relatives just outside Mexico City, and his cousins tried to help him adjust, but he didn\u2019t fit in. \u201cPeople kept making fun of my Spanish, it felt like I couldn\u2019t say a sentence without making a mistake. I felt like a foreigner, it really hurt.\u201dFor the first three years, he was depressed, could barely eat and lost a lot of weight. But most of all he felt very scared. His mother had returned to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n in 2011 and he was stunned by the \u201cnarco\u201d violence. One evening, a carload of armed men in balaclavas pulled up alongside Eric and his friend. \u201cThey asked us to join them, the Knights Templar cartel, it was terrifying, but thankfully they let us go when we said no. There were gun battles in the streets most nights, lots of people were being killed, I wasn\u2019t sure I would survive.\u201dToday, Eric says he still misses feeling safe, \u201cbut I do now feel 80% Mexican \u2013 and people don\u2019t laugh at my Spanish any more. Maybe one day I\u2019ll make it back to America \u2013 I still dream about joining the marines.\u201dIn the 20 years that Nancy lived in Los Angeles, she only told a handful of people that her family was undocumented. Still, she overcame the obstacles to sail through high school, and became the first in her family to go to college, graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and business administration.Around that time, her parents, a builder and a textiles worker, filed an immigration case to obtain legal status with the help of a notary. It looked positive: they got social security numbers and temporary work permits, which helped Nancy to find good jobs, first as an NGO fundraiser and then for a state politician. But the notary kept making excuses while taking their money. In 2008, Nancy discovered that removal orders had been issued against the family years earlier. \u201cWe were victims of fraud, but there was nothing we could do, just hope that Obama would follow through with immigration reforms. I even campaigned for him. It was then I told my boyfriend about my status, though I never thought they\u2019d deport me.\u201dThey got her a year later, flagging her down while she was driving to work, put her in the deportation van and carried on with their raids. \u201cThe nightmare began. I was dropped off in Tijuana at 8pm [at a repatriation centre], without any ID, my phone battery dead, and nowhere to go. I had $20.\u201dNancy called a friend in LA for help, who agreed to drive down with her laptop, some money and clothes. \u201cThis was at the height of the violence in Tijuana and I was terrified to leave the centre, so I just hung around the transit area until my friend arrived at 1am. Even then, I was still thinking I\u2019d be able to fight the case. I didn\u2019t understand that I\u2019d spent my last day in LA, my home since I was nine.\u201dIt took more than a month to obtain Mexican ID, and several months to find a job in a call centre. \u201cI felt like a complete nobody during the first four years in Mexico, like everything I\u2019d done in the US counted for nothing.\u201d Although the education ministry would not accept her Californian degree, the UK would. She moved to London in September 2013 to study for a master\u2019s in migration at University College London. \u201cLondon helped me recover my dignity. I was free to cross borders, explore, prove to the US that I could be trusted. Returning to Mexico from London the proper way, like everyone else, also gave me some closure. I know I need to go back to LA to close the circle completely.\u201d If Nancy hadn\u2019t been deported, she would probably qualify under President Obama\u2019s most recent immigration order as a Dreamer. Instead, she has a 10-year entry ban.\u201cDreamers don\u2019t stop dreaming just because they\u2019re deported. We have strong ties to both countries, so stop ignoring us, stop stigmatising us. We understand both cultures, so start using us for transnational policy issues. We\u2019re an untapped gold mine that only the call-centre industry is exploiting.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Deported to Mexico: a lost generation"},{"date": "2015-04-11T10:51:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\u201cI suddenly had a clearer understanding than ever of the power that journalism has to give a voice to those who have been silenced by the crushing weight of violence.\u201dSo wrote Mexico\u2019s best-known journalist and human rights campaigner, Lydia Cacho, upon seeing her colleagues from the press gather to cover her arrival for interrogation before judges at Puebla, central Mexico, after what she calls a \u201clegal kidnap\u201d by the police.The first stage of that prolonged ordeal 10 years ago had been a terrifying 36-hour drive from her home in the coastal state of Quintana Roo to the courthouse and jail, during which she had been sexually violated, threatened with death and \u201cdisappearance\u201d, and horribly intimidated.Cacho was to be charged with libel after the publication of a book, The Demons of Eden, which revealed a sex-trafficking and pederast-paedophile ring with connections to power on high. The appalling story of power\u2019s revenge, its searing impact on Cacho and the implications of the affair for all reporters is told in a further book, Memorias de una Infamia (Memories of Infamy), in which, vindicated by subsequent events and trials, Cacho demonstrates that the pederasts and sex criminals were protected by the governor of Puebla state, by the judiciary and by people even higher up \u2013 with connections also to drug trafficking.The foreword is written by the one reporter who worked alongside Cacho during her ordeal, revealing crucial material \u2013 including phone taps \u2013 that swung the narrative from the jaws of incarceration and torture into her favour. This was Carmen Aristegui, Mexico\u2019s most famous broadcaster, who was sacked last month by her employer, MVS Radio, after revealing that the wife of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto had acquired a vast luxury property from a group that had won several lucrative government contracts.The fate of the two journalists has stirred to fever pitch the discourse about repression of free speech and the acute physical dangers faced by journalists in Mexico. Scores of reporters have been killed \u2013 often tortured and decapitated \u2013 in what is now seen as a pincer-movement against their work by drug cartels and the state.The Los Angeles Times reported: \u201cThe loss of one of Mexico\u2019s most critical journalistic voices comes as revelations of corruption and killings by police and the army have roiled the country and plunged Pe\u00f1a Nieto into the worst crisis of his 27-month presidency.\u201dWhile all this was happening last month, Pe\u00f1a Nieto was a guest of the Queen and the British government.Cacho \u2013 who has won innumerable awards for her work and was made a Chevalier d\u2019Honneur of the French Republic \u2013 will rally support this week for Aristegui and her endangered colleagues at the London Book Fair, part of a PEN festival focusing on Mexico.Ahead of her visit, Cacho told the Observer: \u201cAfter all these years, every time my mobile phone rings and I see the name of a colleague I fear the worst: assassination, kidnapping or forced disappearance. When I was arrested 10 years ago, I was not so well-known, at least not to the broader news readers; now I\u2019ve published 10 books and still live under tremendous pressure from corrupted politicians and traffickers who want me either dead or exiled and silenced.\u201dOf her friend, Cacho added: \u201cCarmen Aristegui is probably the most famous newscast journalist in our country. She was fired most probably for investigating the president, which happened months after I was fired from El Universal, one of the main national newspapers. If this is happening to us, the visible ones, can you imagine what local reporters are going through in the provinces, where rule of law is almost nonexistent?\u201dCacho thinks the timing of Aristegui\u2019s firing is accounted for by \u201cthe return of the PRI party, who ruled Mexico for more than 70 years. Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s advisers are obsessed with protecting his image at all costs. It seems they want us back into the 1980s, when nobody dared to investigate the president and his ministers.\u201cAristegui\u2019s team not only uncovered the fact that the president\u2019s wife and his finance minister, [Luis] Videgaray, had received a couple of luxurious residences from a big construction conglomerate that was doing business with the federal government; they also exposed a network of corruption, a radiography of how the president is managing the country\u2019s finances as if he was a feudal lord, as if laws, international treaties and transparency did not exist. This case exposes, once again, how a small group of politicians and tycoons handle all media permits in order to control freedom of expression, and they do so through monopolies and the destruction, persecution of free media and journalists.\u201dA report published by the London-based Article 19 organisation at the end of March and launched in Mexico City by Aristegui and Cacho \u2013 found that \u201cunder the current administration headed by Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the number of assaults on the press was nearly double that reported during [his predecessor] Felipe Calder\u00f3n\u2019s term of office \u2026 Failures in the justice system continue to prevail.\u201dAccording to a report by Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission in January, 97 reporters have been killed over the past four years for doing their job. There have been 22 disappearances of reporters and 433 registered attacks since 2005, when the current drug cartel war began in earnest.Just as the report appeared, a long line of murderous attacks on reporters in the state of Veracruz culminated in the discovery of the decapitated body of a freelance website reporter, Mois\u00e9s S\u00e1nchez, who had disappeared in the small town of Medell\u00edn de Bravo. The mayor of the town has been charged with having ordered the murder, but activists believe the attacks on reporters \u2013 13 in Veracruz alone \u2013 have been orchestrated on higher authority, in the state administration. Among the victims in Veracruz was Regina Mart\u00ednez, a reporter for Proceso magazine, who had been seeking to establish those connections. Her violated and tortured body was found in 2012.In her book, Cacho differentiates between \u201cfame\u201d, which she sees as something \u201cfor artists\u201d, and notoriety, which she says she has achieved simply by refusing to be silenced. Either way, her struggle has become what the great anti-mafia writer Roberto Saviano calls \u201cthe Lydia Cacho cause\u201d.In her London appearances, Cacho will also focus on violence against women, and lifting the impunity of those who violate them. Ahead of the visit she said: \u201cWhen Pe\u00f1a Nieto was governor of the state of Mexico [in the south of the country] the femicide rate went through the roof: up by 185%, according to specialist Humberto Padgett. Young women were being assassinated relentlessly. Some were taken by the cartels for sex trafficking; others, younger than 15, exploited as slaves in the opium and marijuana fields..\u201cPe\u00f1a Nieto denied everything; on his way to the presidency he could have been the hero, approving gender equality laws, forcing the justice system to act as law requires. Instead he ordered journalists to be quiet, his team bought some off, and the honest ones had to flee the region, or where threatened, or killed by unknown criminals\u201d.A woman of passion as well as courage, Cacho surveys the scene: \u201cThese are dark times for our country,\u201d she says by telephone from Quintana Roo. \u201cCivil society is confronting the powers that be, but the free media is becoming smaller day by day; narco lords rule some states and provinces. There are not enough hours in a day to help those voices that need listening to, those hundreds of thousands of victimised families that need seeing. Journalism is essential in a country that lives in a silenced war, a masked war. They can erase us journalists from the mainstream media, and they can eliminate us physically. What they will never be able to do is deny the true stories, snatch away my voice, our voices and our words. As long as we are alive we will continue to write and what we have written will keep us alive\u201d.Cacho recalls the last time she talked to her colleague and friend Anna Politkovskaya. \u201cWe laughed in a hotel room, we talked about family and children, about love and work, we discussed the risk of our jobs. One morning watching the news I froze as I heard she had been assassinated after coming back from buying food for her family. This fact made me aware of my own mortality.\u201dBut by way of a message to herald her arrival in Britain, Cacho insists: \u201cI am a woman who will not give up her rights, nor will I sacrifice the rights of others to have a comfortable living. Being a journalist in Mexico is not a job; it\u2019s a calling, a responsibility, never a sacrifice. It is to be part of the counter-power that makes life worth living.\u201dLydia Cacho will appear at a British Council event at the London Book Fair, Gallery Theatre, Kensington Olympia, on Tuesday; and for English PEN at the Free Word Centre, Farringdon Road, London, on Thursday. Slavery Inc: the Untold Story of International Sex Trafficking, is published by Portobello Books", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "Media", "World news"], "title": "'They want to erase journalists in Mexico'"},{"date": "2015-06-30T00:33:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump has been dropped by NBC following the businessman and presidential candidate\u2019s tirade of derogatory comments about Mexico, in which he characterised some Mexicans as criminals and rapists.NBC Universal said it will no longer broadcast the Miss USA or Miss Universe pageants, which are co-owned with Trump. The businessman, who likes to refer to himself as \u201cThe Donald\u201d, had already said he would step aside as host of The Celebrity Apprentice, which also airs on NBC.\u201cAt NBC, respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values,\u201d a spokesperson for the network said on Monday. \u201cDue to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr Trump.\u201cTo that end, the annual Miss USA and Miss Universe Pageants, which are part of a joint venture between NBC and Trump, will no longer air on NBC. In addition, as Mr Trump has already indicated, he will not be participating in The Apprentice on NBC.\u201dIn a statement Trump called NBC \u201cweak\u201d and \u201cfoolish\u201d. \u201cWe must have strong borders and not let illegal immigrants enter the United States. As has been stated continuously in the press, people are pouring across our borders unabated. Public reports routinely state great amounts of crime are being committed by illegal immigrants. This must be stopped and it must be stopped now,\u201d said Trump.\u201cIf NBC is so weak and so foolish to not understand the serious illegal immigration problem in the United States, coupled with the horrendous and unfair trade deals we are making with Mexico, then their contract violating closure of Miss Universe/Miss USA will be determined in court. Furthermore, they will stand behind lying Brian Williams, but won\u2019t stand behind people that tell it like it is, as unpleasant as that may be.\u201dTrump sparked a minor diplomatic incident when he launched his presidential bid earlier this month with an attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201d He also called on Mexico to fund the building of \u201cgreat wall\u201d along the southern border to prevent the supposed influx of Mexican criminals to the US.Speaking at an event at City Club of Chicago, Trump said: \u201cI love the Mexican people. But no apology because everything I said was 100% correct \u2013 all you have to do is read the newspapers.\u201dSpanish language channel Univision had already severed its ties with Trump and refused to air the Miss USA pageant following the \u201cinsulting remarks about Mexican immigrants\u201d. \u201cAt Univision we see first-hand the work ethic, love for family, strong religious values and the important role Mexican immigrants and Mexican Americans have had and will continue to have in building the future of our country,\u201d the network said. Trump accused the Mexican government of forcing Univision to drop the five-year Miss Universe deal, which was valued at more than $13m. This year\u2019s Miss USA contest was due to air on 12 July. \u201cMexican gov doesn\u2019t want me talking about terrible border situation & horrible trade deals. Forcing Univision to get me to stop- no way!\u201d he tweeted. \u201cUnivision apologized to me but I will not accept their apology,\u201d he added. \u201cI will be suing them for a lot of money. Miss USA contestants are hurt!\u201d Trump continued his attacks on Mexico in a CNN interview on Sunday despite a petition on the Change.org website calling on NBC to ditch Trump. More than 200,000 people signed the petition. NBC\u2019s ditching of Trump could become even more awkward for the White House hopeful as the network is due to host one of the key 2016 Republican presidential debates on 26 February 2016. It will be the last GOP debate before the 1 March \u201cSuper Tuesday\u201d contests of Colorado, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Virginia.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "NBC Universal", "Media", "NBC", "US politics", "Mexico", "Americas", "Television industry", "US television industry", "World news"], "title": "Donald Trump dropped by NBC over candidate's comments about Mexico"},{"date": "2015-05-17T06:30:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For the children of undocumented Mexican migrants in the United States, life demands secrecy. They learn to navigate between the two cultures while hiding their illegal status \u2013 all the while praying for immigration reform. Their Mexican memories \u2013 if they remember at all \u2013 are replaced by American dreams. After a few years, they often feel, look and sound so American, they can forget that, in the eyes of the law, they are aliens.But they are, and they can be arrested at any moment. At least 500,000 young adults who grew up in the US have been deported or have decided to return to Mexico in the past decade. For many it is akin to arriving in a foreign country for the second time, but this time they lack a child\u2019s ability to acclimatise. For years, little was known about what happened to these youngsters, but a picture is now emerging of a well-educated, bilingual, bicultural group whose traumas and talents are being ignored. This is in part due to groups trying to raise awareness of their plight. One such network is Los Otros Dreamers \u2013 the Other Dreamers. The name is a reference to the young migrants who would benefit from the Dream Act, a US bill first introduced in 2001, but still not passed, which would have paved the way to citizenship for those brought to the US as children.Some of these \u201cdreamers\u201d were deported after failed immigration cases or minor offences; many were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others came back with their parents, or were exasperated at not being able to get a driving licence, work legally or attend university. Fewer than half of American states accept undocumented migrants at university. Regardless of why they returned, many struggle to adjust.Dr William Perez, a professor of education at Claremont Graduate University, California, recently interviewed almost 300 returnees aged 18-30, as part of his research into undocumented students. Half reported mental-health problems such as depression and anxiety, while 85% have suffered discrimination since returning to Mexico. Many have become demoralised by bureaucratic obstacles preventing them from continuing their education. \u201cThese young people have got huge unmet needs, but also huge potential. They\u2019re stuck doing crappy jobs because the government hasn\u2019t had that lightbulb moment. This group could help solve Mexico\u2019s enormous deficiency in naturalised English speakers,\u201d says Dr Perez.There are some positive signs. In March 2014, the Mexican government launched Somos Mexicanos \u2013 We are Mexican \u2013 its first programme to help returnees reintegrate by expediting access to ID papers, healthcare, education and jobs. Progress has been slow, but the Dreamers are at least on the radar.President Obama\u2019s controversial immigration order last November means around 1.5 million Dreamers are now eligible for temporary legal status. It\u2019s another sticking-plaster fix and ignores all those already deported who would qualify. Obama, who has presided over two million deportations, and is nicknamed the Deporter-in-Chief, has limited legislative options in the face of opposition from the Republican Party. \u201cThere\u2019s so much historical resentment and misunderstanding between Mexico and America,\u201d says Dr Perez, \u201cbut these young people feel an affinity towards both, which should make them a natural bridge between both countries. Currently, they\u2019re rejected by both.\u201dMaggie was a toddler when her family migrated from a tiny agricultural village in Mexico to Dalton, Georgia. \u201cI always knew we were undocumented, but I was 16 when I started to understand what that really meant. Without a social security number, I couldn\u2019t get a driver\u2019s permit. I wanted to be a nurse, but couldn\u2019t apply for scholarships, which made tuition fees three times higher. I even got turned away from a part-time job at Taco Bell.\u201dIn June 2008, a month after she had turned 18 and graduated from high school with top grades, Maggie decided to return to Mexico alone, because she didn\u2019t want to live a lie. \u201cI kept hoping the law would change so I could get my papers and be legal, but it didn\u2019t. I was very attached to God and the Catholic Church, and I didn\u2019t want to break the law, so I said my goodbyes.\u201dMaggie\u2019s parents paid $500 (\u00a3325) to a man-with-a-van to drive her 1,600 miles to San Luis Potos\u00ed. \u201cI had actually started to regret my decision as we approached the border, because I suddenly realised that there would be no way back.\u201dShe was dropped off at a petrol station at 3am, hours later than expected. \u201cI didn\u2019t recognise anything, but thankfully found a taxi that took me to my family village about half an hour away, where my grandfather and aunt were waiting for me. In the village there was a problem with the electricity, so there were no hot showers or washing machines \u2013 I had to heat water on a fire and have bucket baths and wash my clothes in the river. It was a shock. The first three months felt like someone had died. The grief was so strong, I couldn\u2019t do anything, I couldn\u2019t believe I\u2019d left my whole life to come here.\u201dHer parents moved back a couple of years later and bought a house and a convenience store with the money they\u2019d saved in the US working in restaurants and cleaning. They were glad to be home, but Maggie couldn\u2019t settle.Maggie\u2019s US school certificates were finally validated by Mexican authorities last year, so she could start college and get her life back on track. She\u2019s studying for a tourism degree, while working in the all-American Domino\u2019s Pizza. \u201cI\u2019m bilingual, bicultural and I want to be binational, so I\u2019m free to cross the border to my home, where I spent my childhood, to see friends and family. I\u2019m starting to love Mexico, to see a future here, but I have a lot to offer both countries, which neither government understands or appreciates.\u201dViridiana was at college in Davenport, Iowa, studying radiology in 2011, when her father, a chef, was picked up in an immigration raid and deported back to Le\u00f3n after more than 20 years of living in the US.\u201cMy younger brother and sister are US citizens as they were born in Iowa, and my parents had invested everything into buying our own house. What we\u2019d had in Le\u00f3n was long gone. But we decided to go back to join my dad, to try and keep the family together. Only my older sister stayed. It felt like we were leaving home, not going home.\u201dThe euphoria of being reunited with her father and extended family lasted only a few hours. \u201cI went to bed that first night and all I could think was, \u2018What have I done?\u2019 We went for a walk the next morning and the graffiti and trash and rows of tiny houses without any yards just made me feel so sad, it was so different to home.\u201dIt took a year to get the younger children, aged 14 and 15, back into school, as the family struggled to meet the demands of the education ministry. \u201cMy brother\u2019s Spanish wasn\u2019t great and he got really bullied at school. We had the wrong accents, wore the wrong clothes, we were too American. Even within our family we felt stigmatised. I couldn\u2019t get into college or get a job as I didn\u2019t have the right paperwork, and sank into a deep depression, barely leaving the house for over a year.\u201dViridiana\u2019s despair deepened when President Obama handed a reprieve to young undocumented migrants, the Dreamers, just a few months after she had left. \u201cIt was like a punch in the face. I felt happy for my sister and friends who qualified, but I was so angry with the US government, and with myself for making such a bad decision.\u201dUnable to settle, in 2013 she decided to go back as a mojada, or \u201cwetback\u201d, the colloquial name given to undocumented migrants who cross the border. But after a few disastrous months in a dangerous border town trying to find a guide, she turned back.\u201cI was desperate to get back. But, there was so much violence at the border \u2013 dismembered bodies of women were turning up \u2013 that I realised it wasn\u2019t worth risking my life for.\u201dViridiana still misses the snow, friends and her favourite ice cream, and hasn\u2019t given up hope of returning to the US legally one day \u2013 she isn\u2019t banned as she wasn\u2019t deported.\u201cLife isn\u2019t easy here, but we can make it. Sometimes I still pretend that I am just visiting, that soon I\u2019ll be home. But most of the time my mind is on a different track now, I know I have to get on with it, and I want to show the US that they lost someone great.\u201dEric was five years old when he crossed the border with two cousins and a \u201ccoyote\u201d \u2013 an illegal guide paid by their parents to take them from Michoac\u00e1n to Portland, Oregon. His father was already there, his mother joined them a month later, and so began his new life. \u201cI was so small when I left Mexico that I didn\u2019t remember it all. Of course, I spoke Spanish at home and we ate Mexican food, but I grew up feeling American. I wanted to be a marine.\u201dIn December 2009, Eric was an average 10th-grade student struggling to pass maths. After school he hung out with friends at the mall, loved jazz and hip-hop, and played football for his school team, a devoted Portland Timbers and Manchester United fan. By this time, his parents had split up and his dad, a printer, was a legal citizen, having remarried an American. \u201cMy dad applied to get me a visa so I could travel to Mexico to visit my sick grandmother and apply to the marines. On the second day of the interview, the immigration officer said I was being deported because of my criminal background. I had never been in trouble with the police and they wouldn\u2019t tell me what I had supposedly done, only that there was no way to appeal. I was taken to a detention centre, handcuffed and was on a plane to Mexico City that night. It was like a bomb had dropped into my life. I was 17.\u201dMost probably, Eric had been confused with someone else, but he\u2019ll almost certainly never know for sure. Eric arrived in Mexico City at around midnight with only the phone number of an aunt and uncle who his dad had said would help him, but he had never met. \u201cI felt totally alone as I waited for them to come and pick me up \u2013 I had no idea if they\u2019d accept me or not. I kept thinking about home, I hadn\u2019t had the chance to say goodbye to my friends or even speak with my mum. Those first few hours were so scary.\u201dHe moved in with his relatives just outside Mexico City, and his cousins tried to help him adjust, but he didn\u2019t fit in. \u201cPeople kept making fun of my Spanish, it felt like I couldn\u2019t say a sentence without making a mistake. I felt like a foreigner, it really hurt.\u201dFor the first three years, he was depressed, could barely eat and lost a lot of weight. But most of all he felt very scared. His mother had returned to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n in 2011 and he was stunned by the \u201cnarco\u201d violence. One evening, a carload of armed men in balaclavas pulled up alongside Eric and his friend. \u201cThey asked us to join them, the Knights Templar cartel, it was terrifying, but thankfully they let us go when we said no. There were gun battles in the streets most nights, lots of people were being killed, I wasn\u2019t sure I would survive.\u201dToday, Eric says he still misses feeling safe, \u201cbut I do now feel 80% Mexican \u2013 and people don\u2019t laugh at my Spanish any more. Maybe one day I\u2019ll make it back to America \u2013 I still dream about joining the marines.\u201dIn the 20 years that Nancy lived in Los Angeles, she only told a handful of people that her family was undocumented. Still, she overcame the obstacles to sail through high school, and became the first in her family to go to college, graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and business administration.Around that time, her parents, a builder and a textiles worker, filed an immigration case to obtain legal status with the help of a notary. It looked positive: they got social security numbers and temporary work permits, which helped Nancy to find good jobs, first as an NGO fundraiser and then for a state politician. But the notary kept making excuses while taking their money. In 2008, Nancy discovered that removal orders had been issued against the family years earlier. \u201cWe were victims of fraud, but there was nothing we could do, just hope that Obama would follow through with immigration reforms. I even campaigned for him. It was then I told my boyfriend about my status, though I never thought they\u2019d deport me.\u201dThey got her a year later, flagging her down while she was driving to work, put her in the deportation van and carried on with their raids. \u201cThe nightmare began. I was dropped off in Tijuana at 8pm [at a repatriation centre], without any ID, my phone battery dead, and nowhere to go. I had $20.\u201dNancy called a friend in LA for help, who agreed to drive down with her laptop, some money and clothes. \u201cThis was at the height of the violence in Tijuana and I was terrified to leave the centre, so I just hung around the transit area until my friend arrived at 1am. Even then, I was still thinking I\u2019d be able to fight the case. I didn\u2019t understand that I\u2019d spent my last day in LA, my home since I was nine.\u201dIt took more than a month to obtain Mexican ID, and several months to find a job in a call centre. \u201cI felt like a complete nobody during the first four years in Mexico, like everything I\u2019d done in the US counted for nothing.\u201d Although the education ministry would not accept her Californian degree, the UK would. She moved to London in September 2013 to study for a master\u2019s in migration at University College London. \u201cLondon helped me recover my dignity. I was free to cross borders, explore, prove to the US that I could be trusted. Returning to Mexico from London the proper way, like everyone else, also gave me some closure. I know I need to go back to LA to close the circle completely.\u201d If Nancy hadn\u2019t been deported, she would probably qualify under President Obama\u2019s most recent immigration order as a Dreamer. Instead, she has a 10-year entry ban.\u201cDreamers don\u2019t stop dreaming just because they\u2019re deported. We have strong ties to both countries, so stop ignoring us, stop stigmatising us. We understand both cultures, so start using us for transnational policy issues. We\u2019re an untapped gold mine that only the call-centre industry is exploiting.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Deported to Mexico: a lost generation"},{"date": "2015-04-11T10:51:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\u201cI suddenly had a clearer understanding than ever of the power that journalism has to give a voice to those who have been silenced by the crushing weight of violence.\u201dSo wrote Mexico\u2019s best-known journalist and human rights campaigner, Lydia Cacho, upon seeing her colleagues from the press gather to cover her arrival for interrogation before judges at Puebla, central Mexico, after what she calls a \u201clegal kidnap\u201d by the police.The first stage of that prolonged ordeal 10 years ago had been a terrifying 36-hour drive from her home in the coastal state of Quintana Roo to the courthouse and jail, during which she had been sexually violated, threatened with death and \u201cdisappearance\u201d, and horribly intimidated.Cacho was to be charged with libel after the publication of a book, The Demons of Eden, which revealed a sex-trafficking and pederast-paedophile ring with connections to power on high. The appalling story of power\u2019s revenge, its searing impact on Cacho and the implications of the affair for all reporters is told in a further book, Memorias de una Infamia (Memories of Infamy), in which, vindicated by subsequent events and trials, Cacho demonstrates that the pederasts and sex criminals were protected by the governor of Puebla state, by the judiciary and by people even higher up \u2013 with connections also to drug trafficking.The foreword is written by the one reporter who worked alongside Cacho during her ordeal, revealing crucial material \u2013 including phone taps \u2013 that swung the narrative from the jaws of incarceration and torture into her favour. This was Carmen Aristegui, Mexico\u2019s most famous broadcaster, who was sacked last month by her employer, MVS Radio, after revealing that the wife of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto had acquired a vast luxury property from a group that had won several lucrative government contracts.The fate of the two journalists has stirred to fever pitch the discourse about repression of free speech and the acute physical dangers faced by journalists in Mexico. Scores of reporters have been killed \u2013 often tortured and decapitated \u2013 in what is now seen as a pincer-movement against their work by drug cartels and the state.The Los Angeles Times reported: \u201cThe loss of one of Mexico\u2019s most critical journalistic voices comes as revelations of corruption and killings by police and the army have roiled the country and plunged Pe\u00f1a Nieto into the worst crisis of his 27-month presidency.\u201dWhile all this was happening last month, Pe\u00f1a Nieto was a guest of the Queen and the British government.Cacho \u2013 who has won innumerable awards for her work and was made a Chevalier d\u2019Honneur of the French Republic \u2013 will rally support this week for Aristegui and her endangered colleagues at the London Book Fair, part of a PEN festival focusing on Mexico.Ahead of her visit, Cacho told the Observer: \u201cAfter all these years, every time my mobile phone rings and I see the name of a colleague I fear the worst: assassination, kidnapping or forced disappearance. When I was arrested 10 years ago, I was not so well-known, at least not to the broader news readers; now I\u2019ve published 10 books and still live under tremendous pressure from corrupted politicians and traffickers who want me either dead or exiled and silenced.\u201dOf her friend, Cacho added: \u201cCarmen Aristegui is probably the most famous newscast journalist in our country. She was fired most probably for investigating the president, which happened months after I was fired from El Universal, one of the main national newspapers. If this is happening to us, the visible ones, can you imagine what local reporters are going through in the provinces, where rule of law is almost nonexistent?\u201dCacho thinks the timing of Aristegui\u2019s firing is accounted for by \u201cthe return of the PRI party, who ruled Mexico for more than 70 years. Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s advisers are obsessed with protecting his image at all costs. It seems they want us back into the 1980s, when nobody dared to investigate the president and his ministers.\u201cAristegui\u2019s team not only uncovered the fact that the president\u2019s wife and his finance minister, [Luis] Videgaray, had received a couple of luxurious residences from a big construction conglomerate that was doing business with the federal government; they also exposed a network of corruption, a radiography of how the president is managing the country\u2019s finances as if he was a feudal lord, as if laws, international treaties and transparency did not exist. This case exposes, once again, how a small group of politicians and tycoons handle all media permits in order to control freedom of expression, and they do so through monopolies and the destruction, persecution of free media and journalists.\u201dA report published by the London-based Article 19 organisation at the end of March and launched in Mexico City by Aristegui and Cacho \u2013 found that \u201cunder the current administration headed by Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the number of assaults on the press was nearly double that reported during [his predecessor] Felipe Calder\u00f3n\u2019s term of office \u2026 Failures in the justice system continue to prevail.\u201dAccording to a report by Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission in January, 97 reporters have been killed over the past four years for doing their job. There have been 22 disappearances of reporters and 433 registered attacks since 2005, when the current drug cartel war began in earnest.Just as the report appeared, a long line of murderous attacks on reporters in the state of Veracruz culminated in the discovery of the decapitated body of a freelance website reporter, Mois\u00e9s S\u00e1nchez, who had disappeared in the small town of Medell\u00edn de Bravo. The mayor of the town has been charged with having ordered the murder, but activists believe the attacks on reporters \u2013 13 in Veracruz alone \u2013 have been orchestrated on higher authority, in the state administration. Among the victims in Veracruz was Regina Mart\u00ednez, a reporter for Proceso magazine, who had been seeking to establish those connections. Her violated and tortured body was found in 2012.In her book, Cacho differentiates between \u201cfame\u201d, which she sees as something \u201cfor artists\u201d, and notoriety, which she says she has achieved simply by refusing to be silenced. Either way, her struggle has become what the great anti-mafia writer Roberto Saviano calls \u201cthe Lydia Cacho cause\u201d.In her London appearances, Cacho will also focus on violence against women, and lifting the impunity of those who violate them. Ahead of the visit she said: \u201cWhen Pe\u00f1a Nieto was governor of the state of Mexico [in the south of the country] the femicide rate went through the roof: up by 185%, according to specialist Humberto Padgett. Young women were being assassinated relentlessly. Some were taken by the cartels for sex trafficking; others, younger than 15, exploited as slaves in the opium and marijuana fields..\u201cPe\u00f1a Nieto denied everything; on his way to the presidency he could have been the hero, approving gender equality laws, forcing the justice system to act as law requires. Instead he ordered journalists to be quiet, his team bought some off, and the honest ones had to flee the region, or where threatened, or killed by unknown criminals\u201d.A woman of passion as well as courage, Cacho surveys the scene: \u201cThese are dark times for our country,\u201d she says by telephone from Quintana Roo. \u201cCivil society is confronting the powers that be, but the free media is becoming smaller day by day; narco lords rule some states and provinces. There are not enough hours in a day to help those voices that need listening to, those hundreds of thousands of victimised families that need seeing. Journalism is essential in a country that lives in a silenced war, a masked war. They can erase us journalists from the mainstream media, and they can eliminate us physically. What they will never be able to do is deny the true stories, snatch away my voice, our voices and our words. As long as we are alive we will continue to write and what we have written will keep us alive\u201d.Cacho recalls the last time she talked to her colleague and friend Anna Politkovskaya. \u201cWe laughed in a hotel room, we talked about family and children, about love and work, we discussed the risk of our jobs. One morning watching the news I froze as I heard she had been assassinated after coming back from buying food for her family. This fact made me aware of my own mortality.\u201dBut by way of a message to herald her arrival in Britain, Cacho insists: \u201cI am a woman who will not give up her rights, nor will I sacrifice the rights of others to have a comfortable living. Being a journalist in Mexico is not a job; it\u2019s a calling, a responsibility, never a sacrifice. It is to be part of the counter-power that makes life worth living.\u201dLydia Cacho will appear at a British Council event at the London Book Fair, Gallery Theatre, Kensington Olympia, on Tuesday; and for English PEN at the Free Word Centre, Farringdon Road, London, on Thursday. Slavery Inc: the Untold Story of International Sex Trafficking, is published by Portobello Books", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "Media", "World news"], "title": "'They want to erase journalists in Mexico'"},{"date": "2015-06-30T00:33:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump has been dropped by NBC following the businessman and presidential candidate\u2019s tirade of derogatory comments about Mexico, in which he characterised some Mexicans as criminals and rapists.NBC Universal said it will no longer broadcast the Miss USA or Miss Universe pageants, which are co-owned with Trump. The businessman, who likes to refer to himself as \u201cThe Donald\u201d, had already said he would step aside as host of The Celebrity Apprentice, which also airs on NBC.\u201cAt NBC, respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values,\u201d a spokesperson for the network said on Monday. \u201cDue to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr Trump.\u201cTo that end, the annual Miss USA and Miss Universe Pageants, which are part of a joint venture between NBC and Trump, will no longer air on NBC. In addition, as Mr Trump has already indicated, he will not be participating in The Apprentice on NBC.\u201dIn a statement Trump called NBC \u201cweak\u201d and \u201cfoolish\u201d. \u201cWe must have strong borders and not let illegal immigrants enter the United States. As has been stated continuously in the press, people are pouring across our borders unabated. Public reports routinely state great amounts of crime are being committed by illegal immigrants. This must be stopped and it must be stopped now,\u201d said Trump.\u201cIf NBC is so weak and so foolish to not understand the serious illegal immigration problem in the United States, coupled with the horrendous and unfair trade deals we are making with Mexico, then their contract violating closure of Miss Universe/Miss USA will be determined in court. Furthermore, they will stand behind lying Brian Williams, but won\u2019t stand behind people that tell it like it is, as unpleasant as that may be.\u201dTrump sparked a minor diplomatic incident when he launched his presidential bid earlier this month with an attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201d He also called on Mexico to fund the building of \u201cgreat wall\u201d along the southern border to prevent the supposed influx of Mexican criminals to the US.Speaking at an event at City Club of Chicago, Trump said: \u201cI love the Mexican people. But no apology because everything I said was 100% correct \u2013 all you have to do is read the newspapers.\u201dSpanish language channel Univision had already severed its ties with Trump and refused to air the Miss USA pageant following the \u201cinsulting remarks about Mexican immigrants\u201d. \u201cAt Univision we see first-hand the work ethic, love for family, strong religious values and the important role Mexican immigrants and Mexican Americans have had and will continue to have in building the future of our country,\u201d the network said. Trump accused the Mexican government of forcing Univision to drop the five-year Miss Universe deal, which was valued at more than $13m. This year\u2019s Miss USA contest was due to air on 12 July. \u201cMexican gov doesn\u2019t want me talking about terrible border situation & horrible trade deals. Forcing Univision to get me to stop- no way!\u201d he tweeted. \u201cUnivision apologized to me but I will not accept their apology,\u201d he added. \u201cI will be suing them for a lot of money. Miss USA contestants are hurt!\u201d Trump continued his attacks on Mexico in a CNN interview on Sunday despite a petition on the Change.org website calling on NBC to ditch Trump. More than 200,000 people signed the petition. NBC\u2019s ditching of Trump could become even more awkward for the White House hopeful as the network is due to host one of the key 2016 Republican presidential debates on 26 February 2016. It will be the last GOP debate before the 1 March \u201cSuper Tuesday\u201d contests of Colorado, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Virginia.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "NBC Universal", "Media", "NBC", "US politics", "Mexico", "Americas", "Television industry", "US television industry", "World news"], "title": "Donald Trump dropped by NBC over candidate's comments about Mexico"},{"date": "2015-05-09T14:03:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When Mexico\u2019s first lady, Ang\u00e9lica Rivera, catapulted into Vanity Fair\u2019s 2013 best dressed list, thanks to local designer Benito Santos\u2019s sophisticated sheath dresses, the country\u2019s homegrown fashion talent stepped into the style spotlight. Then came Rivera\u2019s trip to London in March with husband Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto to herald this year\u2019s Mexico in the UK event. She was radiant in red for a Buckingham Palace banquet, while dazzling in diamonds and a chic black gown at a Guildhall banquet hosted by the lord mayor.Now Mexico\u2019s global fashion credentials are receiving another boost \u2013 the Museum at New York\u2019s Fashion Institute of Technology has given Mexico City prominence in its exhibition on the top emerging fashion capitals, which opens on 2 June. \u201cFashion from Mexico is new and exciting,\u201d says co-curator Ariele Elia. \u201cThey are using the culture from the indigenous tribes in a way that\u2019s not been seen before.\u201dOne example is Ricardo Seco, who uses the vibrant colours, mystical patterns and ancient beading techniques of the 15,000-year-old Wix\u00e1rika tribe from the mountains of central Mexico on everything from neoprene bomber jackets to skateboards. \u201cI want to show the cool Mexico with pieces you can wear on the street,\u201d says Seco, who is among many Mexican designers who capitalise on the country\u2019s diverse culture, mixing old and new. Inspired by the landscape, Alejandra Quesada often clashes floral and fauna prints for her modern maxi dresses, sweatshirts and more, while Francesco Cancino of Yakampot adapts indigenous shawls and Tzotzil tribal craft processes for his minimalist slouchy silhouettes.For Mexico\u2019s fashionistas, stereotypical pieces like the rebozo scarf are eschewed, and so are western takes on Mexican design. \u201cIt\u2019s too kitsch,\u201d says Brenda D\u00edaz de la Vega, editor-in-chief of Harper\u2019s Bazaar M\u00e9xico and Latin America, who in the last two years has doubled the number of local designers in Harper\u2019s Bazaar M\u00e9xico. Instead, she says, stylish Mexicans mix a few local designers with big logo, big brand pieces by Chanel, Louis Vuitton or Herm\u00e8s. Then there\u2019s the current 70s boho chic look \u00e0 la Navajo tribe. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t work in Mexico, because it is too close to the northern view,\u201d says Bel\u00e9n Lim\u00f3n, head of content at the three-year-old e-store Dafiti, with its 400 national and international brands. \u201cInstead we go for the southern tropical colours and fabrics from Oaxaca,\u201d she says.Yet there\u2019s more to Mexican design than heritage. Carlos Peralta, based in Iztapalapa, gives his slinky slips and delicate camisoles rock\u2019n\u2019roll metal zips and chains, whereas the Guadalajara-based design duo, Julia and Renata Franco, of Julia y Renata, opt for a pared down aesthetic. Their muted white, black and blues focus attention on innovative design details like balloon-effect side pleats and deliberate ragged finishing. \u201cWith no formal fashion structures we are free to do what we want,\u201d says designer Carmen Rion, who works with artisans in Chiapas to create textiles for her bra tops, layered looks and palazzo pants.As Celia Joicey, director of London\u2019s Fashion and Textile Museum, whose show, Made in Mexico: the Rebozo in art, culture and fashion, is opening in Mexico City\u2019s Museo Franz Mayer on Thursday, concludes: \u201cThere\u2019s something incredibly exciting about Mexico now, whether it\u2019s colour or it\u2019s food. And we can better understand the culture through its fashion.\u201d", "tags": ["Fashion", "Life and style", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Designs from tribal past make Mexico a global fashion hit"},{"date": "2015-05-17T06:30:17Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "For the children of undocumented Mexican migrants in the United States, life demands secrecy. They learn to navigate between the two cultures while hiding their illegal status \u2013 all the while praying for immigration reform. Their Mexican memories \u2013 if they remember at all \u2013 are replaced by American dreams. After a few years, they often feel, look and sound so American, they can forget that, in the eyes of the law, they are aliens.But they are, and they can be arrested at any moment. At least 500,000 young adults who grew up in the US have been deported or have decided to return to Mexico in the past decade. For many it is akin to arriving in a foreign country for the second time, but this time they lack a child\u2019s ability to acclimatise. For years, little was known about what happened to these youngsters, but a picture is now emerging of a well-educated, bilingual, bicultural group whose traumas and talents are being ignored. This is in part due to groups trying to raise awareness of their plight. One such network is Los Otros Dreamers \u2013 the Other Dreamers. The name is a reference to the young migrants who would benefit from the Dream Act, a US bill first introduced in 2001, but still not passed, which would have paved the way to citizenship for those brought to the US as children.Some of these \u201cdreamers\u201d were deported after failed immigration cases or minor offences; many were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others came back with their parents, or were exasperated at not being able to get a driving licence, work legally or attend university. Fewer than half of American states accept undocumented migrants at university. Regardless of why they returned, many struggle to adjust.Dr William Perez, a professor of education at Claremont Graduate University, California, recently interviewed almost 300 returnees aged 18-30, as part of his research into undocumented students. Half reported mental-health problems such as depression and anxiety, while 85% have suffered discrimination since returning to Mexico. Many have become demoralised by bureaucratic obstacles preventing them from continuing their education. \u201cThese young people have got huge unmet needs, but also huge potential. They\u2019re stuck doing crappy jobs because the government hasn\u2019t had that lightbulb moment. This group could help solve Mexico\u2019s enormous deficiency in naturalised English speakers,\u201d says Dr Perez.There are some positive signs. In March 2014, the Mexican government launched Somos Mexicanos \u2013 We are Mexican \u2013 its first programme to help returnees reintegrate by expediting access to ID papers, healthcare, education and jobs. Progress has been slow, but the Dreamers are at least on the radar.President Obama\u2019s controversial immigration order last November means around 1.5 million Dreamers are now eligible for temporary legal status. It\u2019s another sticking-plaster fix and ignores all those already deported who would qualify. Obama, who has presided over two million deportations, and is nicknamed the Deporter-in-Chief, has limited legislative options in the face of opposition from the Republican Party. \u201cThere\u2019s so much historical resentment and misunderstanding between Mexico and America,\u201d says Dr Perez, \u201cbut these young people feel an affinity towards both, which should make them a natural bridge between both countries. Currently, they\u2019re rejected by both.\u201dMaggie was a toddler when her family migrated from a tiny agricultural village in Mexico to Dalton, Georgia. \u201cI always knew we were undocumented, but I was 16 when I started to understand what that really meant. Without a social security number, I couldn\u2019t get a driver\u2019s permit. I wanted to be a nurse, but couldn\u2019t apply for scholarships, which made tuition fees three times higher. I even got turned away from a part-time job at Taco Bell.\u201dIn June 2008, a month after she had turned 18 and graduated from high school with top grades, Maggie decided to return to Mexico alone, because she didn\u2019t want to live a lie. \u201cI kept hoping the law would change so I could get my papers and be legal, but it didn\u2019t. I was very attached to God and the Catholic Church, and I didn\u2019t want to break the law, so I said my goodbyes.\u201dMaggie\u2019s parents paid $500 (\u00a3325) to a man-with-a-van to drive her 1,600 miles to San Luis Potos\u00ed. \u201cI had actually started to regret my decision as we approached the border, because I suddenly realised that there would be no way back.\u201dShe was dropped off at a petrol station at 3am, hours later than expected. \u201cI didn\u2019t recognise anything, but thankfully found a taxi that took me to my family village about half an hour away, where my grandfather and aunt were waiting for me. In the village there was a problem with the electricity, so there were no hot showers or washing machines \u2013 I had to heat water on a fire and have bucket baths and wash my clothes in the river. It was a shock. The first three months felt like someone had died. The grief was so strong, I couldn\u2019t do anything, I couldn\u2019t believe I\u2019d left my whole life to come here.\u201dHer parents moved back a couple of years later and bought a house and a convenience store with the money they\u2019d saved in the US working in restaurants and cleaning. They were glad to be home, but Maggie couldn\u2019t settle.Maggie\u2019s US school certificates were finally validated by Mexican authorities last year, so she could start college and get her life back on track. She\u2019s studying for a tourism degree, while working in the all-American Domino\u2019s Pizza. \u201cI\u2019m bilingual, bicultural and I want to be binational, so I\u2019m free to cross the border to my home, where I spent my childhood, to see friends and family. I\u2019m starting to love Mexico, to see a future here, but I have a lot to offer both countries, which neither government understands or appreciates.\u201dViridiana was at college in Davenport, Iowa, studying radiology in 2011, when her father, a chef, was picked up in an immigration raid and deported back to Le\u00f3n after more than 20 years of living in the US.\u201cMy younger brother and sister are US citizens as they were born in Iowa, and my parents had invested everything into buying our own house. What we\u2019d had in Le\u00f3n was long gone. But we decided to go back to join my dad, to try and keep the family together. Only my older sister stayed. It felt like we were leaving home, not going home.\u201dThe euphoria of being reunited with her father and extended family lasted only a few hours. \u201cI went to bed that first night and all I could think was, \u2018What have I done?\u2019 We went for a walk the next morning and the graffiti and trash and rows of tiny houses without any yards just made me feel so sad, it was so different to home.\u201dIt took a year to get the younger children, aged 14 and 15, back into school, as the family struggled to meet the demands of the education ministry. \u201cMy brother\u2019s Spanish wasn\u2019t great and he got really bullied at school. We had the wrong accents, wore the wrong clothes, we were too American. Even within our family we felt stigmatised. I couldn\u2019t get into college or get a job as I didn\u2019t have the right paperwork, and sank into a deep depression, barely leaving the house for over a year.\u201dViridiana\u2019s despair deepened when President Obama handed a reprieve to young undocumented migrants, the Dreamers, just a few months after she had left. \u201cIt was like a punch in the face. I felt happy for my sister and friends who qualified, but I was so angry with the US government, and with myself for making such a bad decision.\u201dUnable to settle, in 2013 she decided to go back as a mojada, or \u201cwetback\u201d, the colloquial name given to undocumented migrants who cross the border. But after a few disastrous months in a dangerous border town trying to find a guide, she turned back.\u201cI was desperate to get back. But, there was so much violence at the border \u2013 dismembered bodies of women were turning up \u2013 that I realised it wasn\u2019t worth risking my life for.\u201dViridiana still misses the snow, friends and her favourite ice cream, and hasn\u2019t given up hope of returning to the US legally one day \u2013 she isn\u2019t banned as she wasn\u2019t deported.\u201cLife isn\u2019t easy here, but we can make it. Sometimes I still pretend that I am just visiting, that soon I\u2019ll be home. But most of the time my mind is on a different track now, I know I have to get on with it, and I want to show the US that they lost someone great.\u201dEric was five years old when he crossed the border with two cousins and a \u201ccoyote\u201d \u2013 an illegal guide paid by their parents to take them from Michoac\u00e1n to Portland, Oregon. His father was already there, his mother joined them a month later, and so began his new life. \u201cI was so small when I left Mexico that I didn\u2019t remember it all. Of course, I spoke Spanish at home and we ate Mexican food, but I grew up feeling American. I wanted to be a marine.\u201dIn December 2009, Eric was an average 10th-grade student struggling to pass maths. After school he hung out with friends at the mall, loved jazz and hip-hop, and played football for his school team, a devoted Portland Timbers and Manchester United fan. By this time, his parents had split up and his dad, a printer, was a legal citizen, having remarried an American. \u201cMy dad applied to get me a visa so I could travel to Mexico to visit my sick grandmother and apply to the marines. On the second day of the interview, the immigration officer said I was being deported because of my criminal background. I had never been in trouble with the police and they wouldn\u2019t tell me what I had supposedly done, only that there was no way to appeal. I was taken to a detention centre, handcuffed and was on a plane to Mexico City that night. It was like a bomb had dropped into my life. I was 17.\u201dMost probably, Eric had been confused with someone else, but he\u2019ll almost certainly never know for sure. Eric arrived in Mexico City at around midnight with only the phone number of an aunt and uncle who his dad had said would help him, but he had never met. \u201cI felt totally alone as I waited for them to come and pick me up \u2013 I had no idea if they\u2019d accept me or not. I kept thinking about home, I hadn\u2019t had the chance to say goodbye to my friends or even speak with my mum. Those first few hours were so scary.\u201dHe moved in with his relatives just outside Mexico City, and his cousins tried to help him adjust, but he didn\u2019t fit in. \u201cPeople kept making fun of my Spanish, it felt like I couldn\u2019t say a sentence without making a mistake. I felt like a foreigner, it really hurt.\u201dFor the first three years, he was depressed, could barely eat and lost a lot of weight. But most of all he felt very scared. His mother had returned to his home state of Michoac\u00e1n in 2011 and he was stunned by the \u201cnarco\u201d violence. One evening, a carload of armed men in balaclavas pulled up alongside Eric and his friend. \u201cThey asked us to join them, the Knights Templar cartel, it was terrifying, but thankfully they let us go when we said no. There were gun battles in the streets most nights, lots of people were being killed, I wasn\u2019t sure I would survive.\u201dToday, Eric says he still misses feeling safe, \u201cbut I do now feel 80% Mexican \u2013 and people don\u2019t laugh at my Spanish any more. Maybe one day I\u2019ll make it back to America \u2013 I still dream about joining the marines.\u201dIn the 20 years that Nancy lived in Los Angeles, she only told a handful of people that her family was undocumented. Still, she overcame the obstacles to sail through high school, and became the first in her family to go to college, graduating in 2004 with a degree in computer science and business administration.Around that time, her parents, a builder and a textiles worker, filed an immigration case to obtain legal status with the help of a notary. It looked positive: they got social security numbers and temporary work permits, which helped Nancy to find good jobs, first as an NGO fundraiser and then for a state politician. But the notary kept making excuses while taking their money. In 2008, Nancy discovered that removal orders had been issued against the family years earlier. \u201cWe were victims of fraud, but there was nothing we could do, just hope that Obama would follow through with immigration reforms. I even campaigned for him. It was then I told my boyfriend about my status, though I never thought they\u2019d deport me.\u201dThey got her a year later, flagging her down while she was driving to work, put her in the deportation van and carried on with their raids. \u201cThe nightmare began. I was dropped off in Tijuana at 8pm [at a repatriation centre], without any ID, my phone battery dead, and nowhere to go. I had $20.\u201dNancy called a friend in LA for help, who agreed to drive down with her laptop, some money and clothes. \u201cThis was at the height of the violence in Tijuana and I was terrified to leave the centre, so I just hung around the transit area until my friend arrived at 1am. Even then, I was still thinking I\u2019d be able to fight the case. I didn\u2019t understand that I\u2019d spent my last day in LA, my home since I was nine.\u201dIt took more than a month to obtain Mexican ID, and several months to find a job in a call centre. \u201cI felt like a complete nobody during the first four years in Mexico, like everything I\u2019d done in the US counted for nothing.\u201d Although the education ministry would not accept her Californian degree, the UK would. She moved to London in September 2013 to study for a master\u2019s in migration at University College London. \u201cLondon helped me recover my dignity. I was free to cross borders, explore, prove to the US that I could be trusted. Returning to Mexico from London the proper way, like everyone else, also gave me some closure. I know I need to go back to LA to close the circle completely.\u201d If Nancy hadn\u2019t been deported, she would probably qualify under President Obama\u2019s most recent immigration order as a Dreamer. Instead, she has a 10-year entry ban.\u201cDreamers don\u2019t stop dreaming just because they\u2019re deported. We have strong ties to both countries, so stop ignoring us, stop stigmatising us. We understand both cultures, so start using us for transnational policy issues. We\u2019re an untapped gold mine that only the call-centre industry is exploiting.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Deported to Mexico: a lost generation"},{"date": "2015-04-11T10:51:48Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\u201cI suddenly had a clearer understanding than ever of the power that journalism has to give a voice to those who have been silenced by the crushing weight of violence.\u201dSo wrote Mexico\u2019s best-known journalist and human rights campaigner, Lydia Cacho, upon seeing her colleagues from the press gather to cover her arrival for interrogation before judges at Puebla, central Mexico, after what she calls a \u201clegal kidnap\u201d by the police.The first stage of that prolonged ordeal 10 years ago had been a terrifying 36-hour drive from her home in the coastal state of Quintana Roo to the courthouse and jail, during which she had been sexually violated, threatened with death and \u201cdisappearance\u201d, and horribly intimidated.Cacho was to be charged with libel after the publication of a book, The Demons of Eden, which revealed a sex-trafficking and pederast-paedophile ring with connections to power on high. The appalling story of power\u2019s revenge, its searing impact on Cacho and the implications of the affair for all reporters is told in a further book, Memorias de una Infamia (Memories of Infamy), in which, vindicated by subsequent events and trials, Cacho demonstrates that the pederasts and sex criminals were protected by the governor of Puebla state, by the judiciary and by people even higher up \u2013 with connections also to drug trafficking.The foreword is written by the one reporter who worked alongside Cacho during her ordeal, revealing crucial material \u2013 including phone taps \u2013 that swung the narrative from the jaws of incarceration and torture into her favour. This was Carmen Aristegui, Mexico\u2019s most famous broadcaster, who was sacked last month by her employer, MVS Radio, after revealing that the wife of President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto had acquired a vast luxury property from a group that had won several lucrative government contracts.The fate of the two journalists has stirred to fever pitch the discourse about repression of free speech and the acute physical dangers faced by journalists in Mexico. Scores of reporters have been killed \u2013 often tortured and decapitated \u2013 in what is now seen as a pincer-movement against their work by drug cartels and the state.The Los Angeles Times reported: \u201cThe loss of one of Mexico\u2019s most critical journalistic voices comes as revelations of corruption and killings by police and the army have roiled the country and plunged Pe\u00f1a Nieto into the worst crisis of his 27-month presidency.\u201dWhile all this was happening last month, Pe\u00f1a Nieto was a guest of the Queen and the British government.Cacho \u2013 who has won innumerable awards for her work and was made a Chevalier d\u2019Honneur of the French Republic \u2013 will rally support this week for Aristegui and her endangered colleagues at the London Book Fair, part of a PEN festival focusing on Mexico.Ahead of her visit, Cacho told the Observer: \u201cAfter all these years, every time my mobile phone rings and I see the name of a colleague I fear the worst: assassination, kidnapping or forced disappearance. When I was arrested 10 years ago, I was not so well-known, at least not to the broader news readers; now I\u2019ve published 10 books and still live under tremendous pressure from corrupted politicians and traffickers who want me either dead or exiled and silenced.\u201dOf her friend, Cacho added: \u201cCarmen Aristegui is probably the most famous newscast journalist in our country. She was fired most probably for investigating the president, which happened months after I was fired from El Universal, one of the main national newspapers. If this is happening to us, the visible ones, can you imagine what local reporters are going through in the provinces, where rule of law is almost nonexistent?\u201dCacho thinks the timing of Aristegui\u2019s firing is accounted for by \u201cthe return of the PRI party, who ruled Mexico for more than 70 years. Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s advisers are obsessed with protecting his image at all costs. It seems they want us back into the 1980s, when nobody dared to investigate the president and his ministers.\u201cAristegui\u2019s team not only uncovered the fact that the president\u2019s wife and his finance minister, [Luis] Videgaray, had received a couple of luxurious residences from a big construction conglomerate that was doing business with the federal government; they also exposed a network of corruption, a radiography of how the president is managing the country\u2019s finances as if he was a feudal lord, as if laws, international treaties and transparency did not exist. This case exposes, once again, how a small group of politicians and tycoons handle all media permits in order to control freedom of expression, and they do so through monopolies and the destruction, persecution of free media and journalists.\u201dA report published by the London-based Article 19 organisation at the end of March and launched in Mexico City by Aristegui and Cacho \u2013 found that \u201cunder the current administration headed by Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, the number of assaults on the press was nearly double that reported during [his predecessor] Felipe Calder\u00f3n\u2019s term of office \u2026 Failures in the justice system continue to prevail.\u201dAccording to a report by Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission in January, 97 reporters have been killed over the past four years for doing their job. There have been 22 disappearances of reporters and 433 registered attacks since 2005, when the current drug cartel war began in earnest.Just as the report appeared, a long line of murderous attacks on reporters in the state of Veracruz culminated in the discovery of the decapitated body of a freelance website reporter, Mois\u00e9s S\u00e1nchez, who had disappeared in the small town of Medell\u00edn de Bravo. The mayor of the town has been charged with having ordered the murder, but activists believe the attacks on reporters \u2013 13 in Veracruz alone \u2013 have been orchestrated on higher authority, in the state administration. Among the victims in Veracruz was Regina Mart\u00ednez, a reporter for Proceso magazine, who had been seeking to establish those connections. Her violated and tortured body was found in 2012.In her book, Cacho differentiates between \u201cfame\u201d, which she sees as something \u201cfor artists\u201d, and notoriety, which she says she has achieved simply by refusing to be silenced. Either way, her struggle has become what the great anti-mafia writer Roberto Saviano calls \u201cthe Lydia Cacho cause\u201d.In her London appearances, Cacho will also focus on violence against women, and lifting the impunity of those who violate them. Ahead of the visit she said: \u201cWhen Pe\u00f1a Nieto was governor of the state of Mexico [in the south of the country] the femicide rate went through the roof: up by 185%, according to specialist Humberto Padgett. Young women were being assassinated relentlessly. Some were taken by the cartels for sex trafficking; others, younger than 15, exploited as slaves in the opium and marijuana fields..\u201cPe\u00f1a Nieto denied everything; on his way to the presidency he could have been the hero, approving gender equality laws, forcing the justice system to act as law requires. Instead he ordered journalists to be quiet, his team bought some off, and the honest ones had to flee the region, or where threatened, or killed by unknown criminals\u201d.A woman of passion as well as courage, Cacho surveys the scene: \u201cThese are dark times for our country,\u201d she says by telephone from Quintana Roo. \u201cCivil society is confronting the powers that be, but the free media is becoming smaller day by day; narco lords rule some states and provinces. There are not enough hours in a day to help those voices that need listening to, those hundreds of thousands of victimised families that need seeing. Journalism is essential in a country that lives in a silenced war, a masked war. They can erase us journalists from the mainstream media, and they can eliminate us physically. What they will never be able to do is deny the true stories, snatch away my voice, our voices and our words. As long as we are alive we will continue to write and what we have written will keep us alive\u201d.Cacho recalls the last time she talked to her colleague and friend Anna Politkovskaya. \u201cWe laughed in a hotel room, we talked about family and children, about love and work, we discussed the risk of our jobs. One morning watching the news I froze as I heard she had been assassinated after coming back from buying food for her family. This fact made me aware of my own mortality.\u201dBut by way of a message to herald her arrival in Britain, Cacho insists: \u201cI am a woman who will not give up her rights, nor will I sacrifice the rights of others to have a comfortable living. Being a journalist in Mexico is not a job; it\u2019s a calling, a responsibility, never a sacrifice. It is to be part of the counter-power that makes life worth living.\u201dLydia Cacho will appear at a British Council event at the London Book Fair, Gallery Theatre, Kensington Olympia, on Tuesday; and for English PEN at the Free Word Centre, Farringdon Road, London, on Thursday. Slavery Inc: the Untold Story of International Sex Trafficking, is published by Portobello Books", "tags": ["Mexico", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "Media", "World news"], "title": "'They want to erase journalists in Mexico'"},{"date": "2015-06-30T00:33:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump has been dropped by NBC following the businessman and presidential candidate\u2019s tirade of derogatory comments about Mexico, in which he characterised some Mexicans as criminals and rapists.NBC Universal said it will no longer broadcast the Miss USA or Miss Universe pageants, which are co-owned with Trump. The businessman, who likes to refer to himself as \u201cThe Donald\u201d, had already said he would step aside as host of The Celebrity Apprentice, which also airs on NBC.\u201cAt NBC, respect and dignity for all people are cornerstones of our values,\u201d a spokesperson for the network said on Monday. \u201cDue to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr Trump.\u201cTo that end, the annual Miss USA and Miss Universe Pageants, which are part of a joint venture between NBC and Trump, will no longer air on NBC. In addition, as Mr Trump has already indicated, he will not be participating in The Apprentice on NBC.\u201dIn a statement Trump called NBC \u201cweak\u201d and \u201cfoolish\u201d. \u201cWe must have strong borders and not let illegal immigrants enter the United States. As has been stated continuously in the press, people are pouring across our borders unabated. Public reports routinely state great amounts of crime are being committed by illegal immigrants. This must be stopped and it must be stopped now,\u201d said Trump.\u201cIf NBC is so weak and so foolish to not understand the serious illegal immigration problem in the United States, coupled with the horrendous and unfair trade deals we are making with Mexico, then their contract violating closure of Miss Universe/Miss USA will be determined in court. Furthermore, they will stand behind lying Brian Williams, but won\u2019t stand behind people that tell it like it is, as unpleasant as that may be.\u201dTrump sparked a minor diplomatic incident when he launched his presidential bid earlier this month with an attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201d He also called on Mexico to fund the building of \u201cgreat wall\u201d along the southern border to prevent the supposed influx of Mexican criminals to the US.Speaking at an event at City Club of Chicago, Trump said: \u201cI love the Mexican people. But no apology because everything I said was 100% correct \u2013 all you have to do is read the newspapers.\u201dSpanish language channel Univision had already severed its ties with Trump and refused to air the Miss USA pageant following the \u201cinsulting remarks about Mexican immigrants\u201d. \u201cAt Univision we see first-hand the work ethic, love for family, strong religious values and the important role Mexican immigrants and Mexican Americans have had and will continue to have in building the future of our country,\u201d the network said. Trump accused the Mexican government of forcing Univision to drop the five-year Miss Universe deal, which was valued at more than $13m. This year\u2019s Miss USA contest was due to air on 12 July. \u201cMexican gov doesn\u2019t want me talking about terrible border situation & horrible trade deals. Forcing Univision to get me to stop- no way!\u201d he tweeted. \u201cUnivision apologized to me but I will not accept their apology,\u201d he added. \u201cI will be suing them for a lot of money. Miss USA contestants are hurt!\u201d Trump continued his attacks on Mexico in a CNN interview on Sunday despite a petition on the Change.org website calling on NBC to ditch Trump. More than 200,000 people signed the petition. NBC\u2019s ditching of Trump could become even more awkward for the White House hopeful as the network is due to host one of the key 2016 Republican presidential debates on 26 February 2016. It will be the last GOP debate before the 1 March \u201cSuper Tuesday\u201d contests of Colorado, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Virginia.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "NBC Universal", "Media", "NBC", "US politics", "Mexico", "Americas", "Television industry", "US television industry", "World news"], "title": "Donald Trump dropped by NBC over candidate's comments about Mexico"},{"date": "2015-05-09T14:03:58Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "When Mexico\u2019s first lady, Ang\u00e9lica Rivera, catapulted into Vanity Fair\u2019s 2013 best dressed list, thanks to local designer Benito Santos\u2019s sophisticated sheath dresses, the country\u2019s homegrown fashion talent stepped into the style spotlight. Then came Rivera\u2019s trip to London in March with husband Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto to herald this year\u2019s Mexico in the UK event. She was radiant in red for a Buckingham Palace banquet, while dazzling in diamonds and a chic black gown at a Guildhall banquet hosted by the lord mayor.Now Mexico\u2019s global fashion credentials are receiving another boost \u2013 the Museum at New York\u2019s Fashion Institute of Technology has given Mexico City prominence in its exhibition on the top emerging fashion capitals, which opens on 2 June. \u201cFashion from Mexico is new and exciting,\u201d says co-curator Ariele Elia. \u201cThey are using the culture from the indigenous tribes in a way that\u2019s not been seen before.\u201dOne example is Ricardo Seco, who uses the vibrant colours, mystical patterns and ancient beading techniques of the 15,000-year-old Wix\u00e1rika tribe from the mountains of central Mexico on everything from neoprene bomber jackets to skateboards. \u201cI want to show the cool Mexico with pieces you can wear on the street,\u201d says Seco, who is among many Mexican designers who capitalise on the country\u2019s diverse culture, mixing old and new. Inspired by the landscape, Alejandra Quesada often clashes floral and fauna prints for her modern maxi dresses, sweatshirts and more, while Francesco Cancino of Yakampot adapts indigenous shawls and Tzotzil tribal craft processes for his minimalist slouchy silhouettes.For Mexico\u2019s fashionistas, stereotypical pieces like the rebozo scarf are eschewed, and so are western takes on Mexican design. \u201cIt\u2019s too kitsch,\u201d says Brenda D\u00edaz de la Vega, editor-in-chief of Harper\u2019s Bazaar M\u00e9xico and Latin America, who in the last two years has doubled the number of local designers in Harper\u2019s Bazaar M\u00e9xico. Instead, she says, stylish Mexicans mix a few local designers with big logo, big brand pieces by Chanel, Louis Vuitton or Herm\u00e8s. Then there\u2019s the current 70s boho chic look \u00e0 la Navajo tribe. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t work in Mexico, because it is too close to the northern view,\u201d says Bel\u00e9n Lim\u00f3n, head of content at the three-year-old e-store Dafiti, with its 400 national and international brands. \u201cInstead we go for the southern tropical colours and fabrics from Oaxaca,\u201d she says.Yet there\u2019s more to Mexican design than heritage. Carlos Peralta, based in Iztapalapa, gives his slinky slips and delicate camisoles rock\u2019n\u2019roll metal zips and chains, whereas the Guadalajara-based design duo, Julia and Renata Franco, of Julia y Renata, opt for a pared down aesthetic. Their muted white, black and blues focus attention on innovative design details like balloon-effect side pleats and deliberate ragged finishing. \u201cWith no formal fashion structures we are free to do what we want,\u201d says designer Carmen Rion, who works with artisans in Chiapas to create textiles for her bra tops, layered looks and palazzo pants.As Celia Joicey, director of London\u2019s Fashion and Textile Museum, whose show, Made in Mexico: the Rebozo in art, culture and fashion, is opening in Mexico City\u2019s Museo Franz Mayer on Thursday, concludes: \u201cThere\u2019s something incredibly exciting about Mexico now, whether it\u2019s colour or it\u2019s food. And we can better understand the culture through its fashion.\u201d", "tags": ["Fashion", "Life and style", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Designs from tribal past make Mexico a global fashion hit"},{"date": "2015-05-12T16:39:35Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Mexico faces a bright future: the World Bank forecasts that the recently crowned MINT country will move up the global GDP table and will have the world\u2019s sixth largest economy by 2050, up from 14th today. But with 75% of its total population of 120 million earning less than $3000 (\u00a31,912) a year, Mexico is one of the world\u2019s most unequal societies and there is a need to ensure that its future wealth benefits those at the bottom of the pyramid. Add a pressing need for development, breakdown of traditional community support networks, and rampant distrust of government and you have the makings of a perfect storm for social enterprise. 2015 is the \u201cDual Year\u201d between Mexico and the UK which promotes better understanding between the two societies in the fields of culture, science and art. In that spirit, we present this primer on Mexico\u2019s emerging social enterprise sector. From the taco stands on every street corner to the thriving tech start-ups, Mexico has a highly entrepreneurial culture. The 2013 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor report found that 14.8% of the adult population were running their own businesses \u2013 compared to 7.3% in the UK, 4.6% in France and 12.7% in the US \u2013 and that 23% planned to start a business in the next three years.  Related: The shape of social enterprise in China The \u201csocial enterprise definition\u201d debate rears its head at every sector event in the UK and it hasn\u2019t been pinned down in Mexico either. In fact, in the absence of a legal definition, the term social enterprise or negocio social is even more ambiguous. The idea of social enterprise is being merged with varying models of social entrepreneurship, inclusive business and even corporate social responsibility, and is loosely applied to a large and fluid sector. As the sector has not been defined, determining the number of social enterprises, amount invested in the sector or its rate of growth is not easy. Moreover, though academics and organisations are looking into it, there is no comprehensive sector mapping study. From the available research, estimates of the number of social enterprises range from 62 to 100 or more. In a recent study commissioned by Chivas Regal, 91 social enterprises were interviewed and the results found that 77% were start-ups, 82% had a turnover of between $0 and $250,000 (\u00a3159,300) and the top three sectors in which they operated were the environment, technology and innovation for good, and water and sanitation. Another survey estimated that social impact investment has totalled $80-90m (\u00a351-\u00a357m) since 2009.After decades of corruption scandals at all levels of government, there is huge distrust in the public sector\u2019s ability to run services efficiently. With so many in the country earning so little and struggling to access health, education or housing, there are gaping holes in public service delivery that the private sector is able to fill, and Mexicans are culturally far happier than Europeans for businesses to take on this role. According to Ashoka Mexico, \u201cSociety is expecting more and more that companies \u2013 rather than governments \u2013 address large pressing social and environmental issues.\u201d  A recent example is Eco Alberto, a project led by Danone, owner of Mexico\u2019s biggest water brand Bonafont, in partnership with the government and Porvenir Foundation. The project brings clean drinking water to communities that lack access to it. Danone helped build a central filtration plant and transports water in tanks to remote communities where it is then sold by local micro-entrepreneurs at accessible prices. This environmentally friendly project has generated a stable income for over 200 indigenous women and delivered clean water to 25,000 people. Started in 2011 the business broke even in March 2014 and is now owned by indigenous communities in the state of Hidalgo. Sector support infrastructure is already in place and more foundations, universities, companies and charities, both local and global, are getting in on the action. These include Ashoka, The Aspen Network for Development Entrepreneurs, over 10 other Mexican foundations and accelerators such as Endeavor, Agora Partnerships and Impact Hubs. On the finance front, investors such as Ignia, Root Capital, Green Street and Angel Ventures are establishing themselves. New Ventures Mexico has been operating for 10 years and since 2011 has run the annual Latin American Forum for Impact investment (FLII). Multinationals such as Chivas Regal, Coca-Cola, and Deloitte are also running support programmes.  Related: Making it mainstream: six ways government can drive the social economy In 2013, the federal government implemented structural reforms to increase business productivity and competitiveness, but social enterprise was not included in a National Development Plan for 2013-18. Social entrepreneurs have a long list of measures they want the government to take, including a legal form for social enterprises, tax breaks and priority in government supply chains.As in many countries, participation in political parties and traditional institutions is low amongst young people. However, Mexicans aged 15-29 make up 26.3% of the Mexican population and 70% of citizens are active in civil society. Unlocking this generation\u2019s potential is essential to future prosperity. As more than 50% of new businesses were started by people aged 35 and younger in 2013, the key to solving many of the country\u2019s problems will be to ensure that a growing proportion of these businesses are social. Anne Salter is a Londoner who spent two months exploring the social enterprise sector in Mexico in January and February 2015 where she spent time with Ashoka Mexico and in Central America. She currently works with Inclusive Business Hub and previously worked at Social Enterprise UK. @AnneSalteContent on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "A perfect storm for social enterprise in Mexico?"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-07-13T16:15:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Americans need Joaquin \u201cEl Chapo\u201d Guzman like a machine needs grease. We don\u2019t need the flesh and blood of the infamous Mexican drug lord, who escaped from prison for a second time on Saturday, himself, so much as we need the idea \u2013 the story \u2013 of him.We need El Chapo in the abstract like we need the guiding principles of freedom or liberty or free speech, because the Sinaloa cartel kingpin is one of our great American institutions: he exemplifies our story of Mexico as impoverished, backward, violent, dirty, dumb, a corrupt state, a failing state, a failed state. (That sort of rhetoric has overtaken my Facebook feed since Chapo disappeared from a maximum security prison late Saturday night.) Related: Donald Trump's Latino comments are just GOP orthodoxy in a cruder shell | Jeb Lund No matter where Americans stand ideologically, El Chapo confirms what they know to be true about their southern neighbor. For the American right, Guzman confirms Donald Trump\u2019s blanket indictment of Mexicans, when he called them drug traffickers, rapists and criminals in his presidential candidacy speech. The American left needs El Chapo as a way to restore or affirm our liberal sense of identity and, perhaps, our very purpose in life: to better the lives of people in narcoviolence-ridden Mexico and clear our conscience. El Chapo personifies the ultimate American anxiety of the great brown invasion.My initiation into this perspective came in third grade in North Austin, Texas, when our class watched the John Wayne film The Alamo. For the uninitiated, the 1960 film is basically Wayne killing brown people for two hours. I remember sitting through the film and watching people who looked like my father, my cousins, my uncles, my brother getting killed en masse onscreen. They were shot, slashed, pierced, crushed, gouged, exploded by cannon fire. I took away the fact that because I was Mexican-American, I was an undesirable. I was historically, genetically, the enemy of the state. I was like the guy who killed John Wayne, supposedly the most American of men. When we \u201cremember the Alamo,\u201d we\u2019re remembering the end-game of what unchecked Mexican power looks like: barbarous and violent.There\u2019s no denying Chapo Guzman is both of those things. But this fear of Mexico has long exceeded the actions of one man, informing the laws behind prohibition, the outlawing of marijuana, Nixon\u2019s war on drugs, Reagan\u2019s war on drugs and finally, the Merida Initiative in 2008, a pact between Mexico and the United States designed to fight organized crime.Evidence now shows that this long-term undermining of the Mexican state may have inadvertently propelled Guzman into power. It was our drug wars that pushed the prices of his commodities through the roof, our drug habits that have fuelled his empire. But we need him to point to the ongoing failure of Mexico even though he more accurately represents the result of our own failed policies. So as Americans obsess about containing Chapo, the man, that focus is also a misplaced anxiety about containing the border, containing drugs and containing the movement of people when we should be focusing on reforming our own dangerous policies and attitudes. This single story of Mexico, designed to resonate with our anxieties, is more dangerous than anything that might actually cross our southern border. And the story of Mexico and America is more complex than a single bogeyman. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Americas"], "title": "El Chapo embodies all of America's misguided anxieties about Mexico | Daniel Pe\u00f1a"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-07-13T16:15:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Americans need Joaquin \u201cEl Chapo\u201d Guzman like a machine needs grease. We don\u2019t need the flesh and blood of the infamous Mexican drug lord, who escaped from prison for a second time on Saturday, himself, so much as we need the idea \u2013 the story \u2013 of him.We need El Chapo in the abstract like we need the guiding principles of freedom or liberty or free speech, because the Sinaloa cartel kingpin is one of our great American institutions: he exemplifies our story of Mexico as impoverished, backward, violent, dirty, dumb, a corrupt state, a failing state, a failed state. (That sort of rhetoric has overtaken my Facebook feed since Chapo disappeared from a maximum security prison late Saturday night.) Related: Donald Trump's Latino comments are just GOP orthodoxy in a cruder shell | Jeb Lund No matter where Americans stand ideologically, El Chapo confirms what they know to be true about their southern neighbor. For the American right, Guzman confirms Donald Trump\u2019s blanket indictment of Mexicans, when he called them drug traffickers, rapists and criminals in his presidential candidacy speech. The American left needs El Chapo as a way to restore or affirm our liberal sense of identity and, perhaps, our very purpose in life: to better the lives of people in narcoviolence-ridden Mexico and clear our conscience. El Chapo personifies the ultimate American anxiety of the great brown invasion.My initiation into this perspective came in third grade in North Austin, Texas, when our class watched the John Wayne film The Alamo. For the uninitiated, the 1960 film is basically Wayne killing brown people for two hours. I remember sitting through the film and watching people who looked like my father, my cousins, my uncles, my brother getting killed en masse onscreen. They were shot, slashed, pierced, crushed, gouged, exploded by cannon fire. I took away the fact that because I was Mexican-American, I was an undesirable. I was historically, genetically, the enemy of the state. I was like the guy who killed John Wayne, supposedly the most American of men. When we \u201cremember the Alamo,\u201d we\u2019re remembering the end-game of what unchecked Mexican power looks like: barbarous and violent.There\u2019s no denying Chapo Guzman is both of those things. But this fear of Mexico has long exceeded the actions of one man, informing the laws behind prohibition, the outlawing of marijuana, Nixon\u2019s war on drugs, Reagan\u2019s war on drugs and finally, the Merida Initiative in 2008, a pact between Mexico and the United States designed to fight organized crime.Evidence now shows that this long-term undermining of the Mexican state may have inadvertently propelled Guzman into power. It was our drug wars that pushed the prices of his commodities through the roof, our drug habits that have fuelled his empire. But we need him to point to the ongoing failure of Mexico even though he more accurately represents the result of our own failed policies. So as Americans obsess about containing Chapo, the man, that focus is also a misplaced anxiety about containing the border, containing drugs and containing the movement of people when we should be focusing on reforming our own dangerous policies and attitudes. This single story of Mexico, designed to resonate with our anxieties, is more dangerous than anything that might actually cross our southern border. And the story of Mexico and America is more complex than a single bogeyman. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Americas"], "title": "El Chapo embodies all of America's misguided anxieties about Mexico | Daniel Pe\u00f1a"},{"date": "2015-07-04T18:38:43Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As controversy over his remarks about Mexican immigrants to the US continued to attract international condemnation and damage his commercial relationships, the White House hopeful Donald Trump drew heavy fire from Marco Rubio, a Hispanic member of the 14-strong GOP presidential field.On Friday, Rubio released a strongly worded statement which said: \u201cTrump\u2019s comments are not just offensive and inaccurate, but also divisive.\u201dAt the launch of his presidential campaign two weeks ago, Trump said: \u201c[Mexico is] sending people that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dThe government of Mexico called the comments \u201cprejudiced\u201d and \u201cabsurd\u201d; the Venezuelan president, Nicol\u00e1s Maduro, said Trump was \u201cmentally ill\u201d.Hispanic leaders in the US called on Republicans to condemn Trump\u2019s remarks. Many candidates have been cautious and relatively mild. The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, the frontrunner whose wife was born in Mexico and who speaks fluent Spanish, said Trump was \u201cwrong\u201d and added: \u201cMaybe we\u2019ll have a chance to have an honest discussion about it onstage.\u201d Related: Hispanic leaders call for Republican candidates to condemn Donald Trump Trump, running second in some polls, is on course to appear onstage in the first Republican debate, which will be hosted in Cleveland by Fox on 6 August. Only the top 10 in the currently 14-strong GOP field will be allowed to participate.Rubio\u2019s statement continued: \u201cOur next president needs to be someone who brings Americans together \u2013 not someone who continues to divide. Our broken immigration system is something that needs to be solved, and comments like this move us further from \u2013 not closer to \u2013 a solution. We need leaders who offer serious solutions to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.\u201dOn Saturday, speaking on the Fox & Friends morning show, Trump attacked Rubio for being \u201cvery weak on immigration\u201d. He also said the former New York governor George Pataki, who has criticised his remarks, was \u201ca sad figure\u201d and \u201ca terrible governor of New York\u201d who had \u201czero numbers in the polls\u201d.Trump said he \u201crespected\u201d the Texas senator Ted Cruz, who has defended his remarks on immigration.On Friday, Trump lost the support of another US institution when the chairman of Nascar said the auto-racing series would not host its season-end awards at his Trump National Doral resort in Miami.TV networks Univision and NBC and department store Macy\u2019s have said they will cut commercial ties with Trump. In response, Trump has imposed a ban on Miami-based Univision executives using the golf course at his Doral resort, and filed a $500m lawsuit over the network\u2019s withdrawal of support for the Miss USA beauty pageant, in which he holds a stake.He has also clashed with the actress America Ferrera, who posted an open letter on huffingtonpost.com in which she wrote: \u201cWhat you just did with your straight talk was send more Latino voters to the polls than several registration rallies combined! Thank you for that.\u201dIn response, via Twitter, Trump said: \u201cThank you America Ferrara for supporting lawless criminals from Mexico.\u201dOn Fox on Saturday, Trump said: \u201cThis isn\u2019t good for my brand. I think it\u2019s bad for my brand. Maybe I\u2019m leading in polls, but this is certainly not good. I lose customers, I lose people.\u201dHe added: \u201cI had one of the top shows on television, The Apprentice, and I decided not to do it because I wanted to do this. Who gives up a top, top show? \u201cPlus, I gave up hundreds of millions of dollars of deals because I\u2019m doing this. And then you hear about Nascar, and NBC, and you hear about different people who drop Trump because Trump wants safety.\u201dOn Friday, Nascar spokesman David Higdon said: \u201cWe looked at everything we saw coming down and what we heard from our sponsors and our partners and what we feel we should be doing, and that\u2019s what led us to the decision today.\u201dMarcus Lemonis, chief executive of one such sponsor, Camping World, released a letter which said: \u201cDue to recent and ongoing blatantly bigoted and racist comments from Donald Trump in regards to immigrants of the United States, I would like to inform you that I will not, nor will any representative of Camping World, participate or attend in the ceremonial event if it is held at any Trump property.\u201dUndaunted, Trump doubled \u2013 or possibly tripled or quadrupled \u2013 down on his controversial comments, telling Fox News the shooting dead of a 32-year-old woman by an illegal immigrant with an extensive arrest record in San Francisco was \u201cyet another example of why we must secure our border immediately\u201d.\u201cThis is an absolutely disgraceful situation and I am the only one that can fix it. Nobody else has the guts to even talk about it,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Marco Rubio", "US news", "US politics", "US elections 2016", "Republicans", "US immigration", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "'Offensive and inaccurate': Marco Rubio rejects Donald Trump's Mexico remarks"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-07-13T16:15:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Americans need Joaquin \u201cEl Chapo\u201d Guzman like a machine needs grease. We don\u2019t need the flesh and blood of the infamous Mexican drug lord, who escaped from prison for a second time on Saturday, himself, so much as we need the idea \u2013 the story \u2013 of him.We need El Chapo in the abstract like we need the guiding principles of freedom or liberty or free speech, because the Sinaloa cartel kingpin is one of our great American institutions: he exemplifies our story of Mexico as impoverished, backward, violent, dirty, dumb, a corrupt state, a failing state, a failed state. (That sort of rhetoric has overtaken my Facebook feed since Chapo disappeared from a maximum security prison late Saturday night.) Related: Donald Trump's Latino comments are just GOP orthodoxy in a cruder shell | Jeb Lund No matter where Americans stand ideologically, El Chapo confirms what they know to be true about their southern neighbor. For the American right, Guzman confirms Donald Trump\u2019s blanket indictment of Mexicans, when he called them drug traffickers, rapists and criminals in his presidential candidacy speech. The American left needs El Chapo as a way to restore or affirm our liberal sense of identity and, perhaps, our very purpose in life: to better the lives of people in narcoviolence-ridden Mexico and clear our conscience. El Chapo personifies the ultimate American anxiety of the great brown invasion.My initiation into this perspective came in third grade in North Austin, Texas, when our class watched the John Wayne film The Alamo. For the uninitiated, the 1960 film is basically Wayne killing brown people for two hours. I remember sitting through the film and watching people who looked like my father, my cousins, my uncles, my brother getting killed en masse onscreen. They were shot, slashed, pierced, crushed, gouged, exploded by cannon fire. I took away the fact that because I was Mexican-American, I was an undesirable. I was historically, genetically, the enemy of the state. I was like the guy who killed John Wayne, supposedly the most American of men. When we \u201cremember the Alamo,\u201d we\u2019re remembering the end-game of what unchecked Mexican power looks like: barbarous and violent.There\u2019s no denying Chapo Guzman is both of those things. But this fear of Mexico has long exceeded the actions of one man, informing the laws behind prohibition, the outlawing of marijuana, Nixon\u2019s war on drugs, Reagan\u2019s war on drugs and finally, the Merida Initiative in 2008, a pact between Mexico and the United States designed to fight organized crime.Evidence now shows that this long-term undermining of the Mexican state may have inadvertently propelled Guzman into power. It was our drug wars that pushed the prices of his commodities through the roof, our drug habits that have fuelled his empire. But we need him to point to the ongoing failure of Mexico even though he more accurately represents the result of our own failed policies. So as Americans obsess about containing Chapo, the man, that focus is also a misplaced anxiety about containing the border, containing drugs and containing the movement of people when we should be focusing on reforming our own dangerous policies and attitudes. This single story of Mexico, designed to resonate with our anxieties, is more dangerous than anything that might actually cross our southern border. And the story of Mexico and America is more complex than a single bogeyman. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Americas"], "title": "El Chapo embodies all of America's misguided anxieties about Mexico | Daniel Pe\u00f1a"},{"date": "2015-07-04T18:38:43Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As controversy over his remarks about Mexican immigrants to the US continued to attract international condemnation and damage his commercial relationships, the White House hopeful Donald Trump drew heavy fire from Marco Rubio, a Hispanic member of the 14-strong GOP presidential field.On Friday, Rubio released a strongly worded statement which said: \u201cTrump\u2019s comments are not just offensive and inaccurate, but also divisive.\u201dAt the launch of his presidential campaign two weeks ago, Trump said: \u201c[Mexico is] sending people that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dThe government of Mexico called the comments \u201cprejudiced\u201d and \u201cabsurd\u201d; the Venezuelan president, Nicol\u00e1s Maduro, said Trump was \u201cmentally ill\u201d.Hispanic leaders in the US called on Republicans to condemn Trump\u2019s remarks. Many candidates have been cautious and relatively mild. The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, the frontrunner whose wife was born in Mexico and who speaks fluent Spanish, said Trump was \u201cwrong\u201d and added: \u201cMaybe we\u2019ll have a chance to have an honest discussion about it onstage.\u201d Related: Hispanic leaders call for Republican candidates to condemn Donald Trump Trump, running second in some polls, is on course to appear onstage in the first Republican debate, which will be hosted in Cleveland by Fox on 6 August. Only the top 10 in the currently 14-strong GOP field will be allowed to participate.Rubio\u2019s statement continued: \u201cOur next president needs to be someone who brings Americans together \u2013 not someone who continues to divide. Our broken immigration system is something that needs to be solved, and comments like this move us further from \u2013 not closer to \u2013 a solution. We need leaders who offer serious solutions to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.\u201dOn Saturday, speaking on the Fox & Friends morning show, Trump attacked Rubio for being \u201cvery weak on immigration\u201d. He also said the former New York governor George Pataki, who has criticised his remarks, was \u201ca sad figure\u201d and \u201ca terrible governor of New York\u201d who had \u201czero numbers in the polls\u201d.Trump said he \u201crespected\u201d the Texas senator Ted Cruz, who has defended his remarks on immigration.On Friday, Trump lost the support of another US institution when the chairman of Nascar said the auto-racing series would not host its season-end awards at his Trump National Doral resort in Miami.TV networks Univision and NBC and department store Macy\u2019s have said they will cut commercial ties with Trump. In response, Trump has imposed a ban on Miami-based Univision executives using the golf course at his Doral resort, and filed a $500m lawsuit over the network\u2019s withdrawal of support for the Miss USA beauty pageant, in which he holds a stake.He has also clashed with the actress America Ferrera, who posted an open letter on huffingtonpost.com in which she wrote: \u201cWhat you just did with your straight talk was send more Latino voters to the polls than several registration rallies combined! Thank you for that.\u201dIn response, via Twitter, Trump said: \u201cThank you America Ferrara for supporting lawless criminals from Mexico.\u201dOn Fox on Saturday, Trump said: \u201cThis isn\u2019t good for my brand. I think it\u2019s bad for my brand. Maybe I\u2019m leading in polls, but this is certainly not good. I lose customers, I lose people.\u201dHe added: \u201cI had one of the top shows on television, The Apprentice, and I decided not to do it because I wanted to do this. Who gives up a top, top show? \u201cPlus, I gave up hundreds of millions of dollars of deals because I\u2019m doing this. And then you hear about Nascar, and NBC, and you hear about different people who drop Trump because Trump wants safety.\u201dOn Friday, Nascar spokesman David Higdon said: \u201cWe looked at everything we saw coming down and what we heard from our sponsors and our partners and what we feel we should be doing, and that\u2019s what led us to the decision today.\u201dMarcus Lemonis, chief executive of one such sponsor, Camping World, released a letter which said: \u201cDue to recent and ongoing blatantly bigoted and racist comments from Donald Trump in regards to immigrants of the United States, I would like to inform you that I will not, nor will any representative of Camping World, participate or attend in the ceremonial event if it is held at any Trump property.\u201dUndaunted, Trump doubled \u2013 or possibly tripled or quadrupled \u2013 down on his controversial comments, telling Fox News the shooting dead of a 32-year-old woman by an illegal immigrant with an extensive arrest record in San Francisco was \u201cyet another example of why we must secure our border immediately\u201d.\u201cThis is an absolutely disgraceful situation and I am the only one that can fix it. Nobody else has the guts to even talk about it,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Marco Rubio", "US news", "US politics", "US elections 2016", "Republicans", "US immigration", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "'Offensive and inaccurate': Marco Rubio rejects Donald Trump's Mexico remarks"},{"date": "2015-07-02T19:58:47Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump doubled down on his claim that Mexican immigrants are responsible for a large number of rapes in the US on Wednesday. \u201cWho\u2019s doing the raping,\u201d Trump shot back in an interview when challenged on his controversial remarks.The businessman and would-be president, who launched his presidential campaign with an attack on Mexican immigrants as drug dealers, criminals and rapists, has claimed that there is \u201cmind-boggling\u201d link between rape and illegal immigration. \u201cIf you look at the statistics of people coming, you look at the statistics on rape, on crime, on everything coming in illegally into this country it\u2019s mind-boggling!\u201d he said in an interview with CNN on Wednesday night. Trump, who has already sparked a minor diplomatic incident and lost business deals with five companies over his remarks about Mexicans, claimed that statistics show that Latino immigrants are more likely to perpetrate rape than the wider population. However, the Fusion article he referred to said 80% of women crossing the Mexican border are raped along the way, often by criminal gangs, traffickers or corrupt officials. When CNN host Don Lemon pointed out that Trump had misread the article, the former Apprentice host said: \u201cWell, somebody\u2019s doing the raping, Don! I mean somebody\u2019s doing it! Who\u2019s doing the raping? Who\u2019s doing the raping?\u201dThere are no centrally recorded government statistics on the ethnicity of convicted rapists in the US. Department store Macy\u2019s on Wednesday became the fifth big company to have ended partnerships with Trump following his attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dTV networks NBC Universal, Grupo Televisa, Ora TV and Univision have already cut ties with Trump and the Miss Universe contest, which he part-owns. Mexico is refusing to send a contestant to Miss Universe this year because of the row.\u201cWe are disappointed and distressed by recent remarks about immigrants from Mexico. We do not believe the disparaging characterizations portray an accurate picture of the many Mexicans, Mexican Americans and Latinos who have made so many valuable contributions to the success of our nation,\u201d Macy\u2019s said.Televisa, Mexico\u2019s largest television network, said Trump has \u201coffended the entire Mexican population\u201d and Ora, which is owned by the world\u2019s second-richest man, Carlos Slim, described Trump\u2019s comments as \u201cracist\u201d. ", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "Mexico", "Race issues"], "title": "Donald Trump doubles down on Mexico 'rapists' comments despite outrage"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-07-13T16:15:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Americans need Joaquin \u201cEl Chapo\u201d Guzman like a machine needs grease. We don\u2019t need the flesh and blood of the infamous Mexican drug lord, who escaped from prison for a second time on Saturday, himself, so much as we need the idea \u2013 the story \u2013 of him.We need El Chapo in the abstract like we need the guiding principles of freedom or liberty or free speech, because the Sinaloa cartel kingpin is one of our great American institutions: he exemplifies our story of Mexico as impoverished, backward, violent, dirty, dumb, a corrupt state, a failing state, a failed state. (That sort of rhetoric has overtaken my Facebook feed since Chapo disappeared from a maximum security prison late Saturday night.) Related: Donald Trump's Latino comments are just GOP orthodoxy in a cruder shell | Jeb Lund No matter where Americans stand ideologically, El Chapo confirms what they know to be true about their southern neighbor. For the American right, Guzman confirms Donald Trump\u2019s blanket indictment of Mexicans, when he called them drug traffickers, rapists and criminals in his presidential candidacy speech. The American left needs El Chapo as a way to restore or affirm our liberal sense of identity and, perhaps, our very purpose in life: to better the lives of people in narcoviolence-ridden Mexico and clear our conscience. El Chapo personifies the ultimate American anxiety of the great brown invasion.My initiation into this perspective came in third grade in North Austin, Texas, when our class watched the John Wayne film The Alamo. For the uninitiated, the 1960 film is basically Wayne killing brown people for two hours. I remember sitting through the film and watching people who looked like my father, my cousins, my uncles, my brother getting killed en masse onscreen. They were shot, slashed, pierced, crushed, gouged, exploded by cannon fire. I took away the fact that because I was Mexican-American, I was an undesirable. I was historically, genetically, the enemy of the state. I was like the guy who killed John Wayne, supposedly the most American of men. When we \u201cremember the Alamo,\u201d we\u2019re remembering the end-game of what unchecked Mexican power looks like: barbarous and violent.There\u2019s no denying Chapo Guzman is both of those things. But this fear of Mexico has long exceeded the actions of one man, informing the laws behind prohibition, the outlawing of marijuana, Nixon\u2019s war on drugs, Reagan\u2019s war on drugs and finally, the Merida Initiative in 2008, a pact between Mexico and the United States designed to fight organized crime.Evidence now shows that this long-term undermining of the Mexican state may have inadvertently propelled Guzman into power. It was our drug wars that pushed the prices of his commodities through the roof, our drug habits that have fuelled his empire. But we need him to point to the ongoing failure of Mexico even though he more accurately represents the result of our own failed policies. So as Americans obsess about containing Chapo, the man, that focus is also a misplaced anxiety about containing the border, containing drugs and containing the movement of people when we should be focusing on reforming our own dangerous policies and attitudes. This single story of Mexico, designed to resonate with our anxieties, is more dangerous than anything that might actually cross our southern border. And the story of Mexico and America is more complex than a single bogeyman. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Americas"], "title": "El Chapo embodies all of America's misguided anxieties about Mexico | Daniel Pe\u00f1a"},{"date": "2015-07-04T18:38:43Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As controversy over his remarks about Mexican immigrants to the US continued to attract international condemnation and damage his commercial relationships, the White House hopeful Donald Trump drew heavy fire from Marco Rubio, a Hispanic member of the 14-strong GOP presidential field.On Friday, Rubio released a strongly worded statement which said: \u201cTrump\u2019s comments are not just offensive and inaccurate, but also divisive.\u201dAt the launch of his presidential campaign two weeks ago, Trump said: \u201c[Mexico is] sending people that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dThe government of Mexico called the comments \u201cprejudiced\u201d and \u201cabsurd\u201d; the Venezuelan president, Nicol\u00e1s Maduro, said Trump was \u201cmentally ill\u201d.Hispanic leaders in the US called on Republicans to condemn Trump\u2019s remarks. Many candidates have been cautious and relatively mild. The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, the frontrunner whose wife was born in Mexico and who speaks fluent Spanish, said Trump was \u201cwrong\u201d and added: \u201cMaybe we\u2019ll have a chance to have an honest discussion about it onstage.\u201d Related: Hispanic leaders call for Republican candidates to condemn Donald Trump Trump, running second in some polls, is on course to appear onstage in the first Republican debate, which will be hosted in Cleveland by Fox on 6 August. Only the top 10 in the currently 14-strong GOP field will be allowed to participate.Rubio\u2019s statement continued: \u201cOur next president needs to be someone who brings Americans together \u2013 not someone who continues to divide. Our broken immigration system is something that needs to be solved, and comments like this move us further from \u2013 not closer to \u2013 a solution. We need leaders who offer serious solutions to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.\u201dOn Saturday, speaking on the Fox & Friends morning show, Trump attacked Rubio for being \u201cvery weak on immigration\u201d. He also said the former New York governor George Pataki, who has criticised his remarks, was \u201ca sad figure\u201d and \u201ca terrible governor of New York\u201d who had \u201czero numbers in the polls\u201d.Trump said he \u201crespected\u201d the Texas senator Ted Cruz, who has defended his remarks on immigration.On Friday, Trump lost the support of another US institution when the chairman of Nascar said the auto-racing series would not host its season-end awards at his Trump National Doral resort in Miami.TV networks Univision and NBC and department store Macy\u2019s have said they will cut commercial ties with Trump. In response, Trump has imposed a ban on Miami-based Univision executives using the golf course at his Doral resort, and filed a $500m lawsuit over the network\u2019s withdrawal of support for the Miss USA beauty pageant, in which he holds a stake.He has also clashed with the actress America Ferrera, who posted an open letter on huffingtonpost.com in which she wrote: \u201cWhat you just did with your straight talk was send more Latino voters to the polls than several registration rallies combined! Thank you for that.\u201dIn response, via Twitter, Trump said: \u201cThank you America Ferrara for supporting lawless criminals from Mexico.\u201dOn Fox on Saturday, Trump said: \u201cThis isn\u2019t good for my brand. I think it\u2019s bad for my brand. Maybe I\u2019m leading in polls, but this is certainly not good. I lose customers, I lose people.\u201dHe added: \u201cI had one of the top shows on television, The Apprentice, and I decided not to do it because I wanted to do this. Who gives up a top, top show? \u201cPlus, I gave up hundreds of millions of dollars of deals because I\u2019m doing this. And then you hear about Nascar, and NBC, and you hear about different people who drop Trump because Trump wants safety.\u201dOn Friday, Nascar spokesman David Higdon said: \u201cWe looked at everything we saw coming down and what we heard from our sponsors and our partners and what we feel we should be doing, and that\u2019s what led us to the decision today.\u201dMarcus Lemonis, chief executive of one such sponsor, Camping World, released a letter which said: \u201cDue to recent and ongoing blatantly bigoted and racist comments from Donald Trump in regards to immigrants of the United States, I would like to inform you that I will not, nor will any representative of Camping World, participate or attend in the ceremonial event if it is held at any Trump property.\u201dUndaunted, Trump doubled \u2013 or possibly tripled or quadrupled \u2013 down on his controversial comments, telling Fox News the shooting dead of a 32-year-old woman by an illegal immigrant with an extensive arrest record in San Francisco was \u201cyet another example of why we must secure our border immediately\u201d.\u201cThis is an absolutely disgraceful situation and I am the only one that can fix it. Nobody else has the guts to even talk about it,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Marco Rubio", "US news", "US politics", "US elections 2016", "Republicans", "US immigration", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "'Offensive and inaccurate': Marco Rubio rejects Donald Trump's Mexico remarks"},{"date": "2015-07-02T19:58:47Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump doubled down on his claim that Mexican immigrants are responsible for a large number of rapes in the US on Wednesday. \u201cWho\u2019s doing the raping,\u201d Trump shot back in an interview when challenged on his controversial remarks.The businessman and would-be president, who launched his presidential campaign with an attack on Mexican immigrants as drug dealers, criminals and rapists, has claimed that there is \u201cmind-boggling\u201d link between rape and illegal immigration. \u201cIf you look at the statistics of people coming, you look at the statistics on rape, on crime, on everything coming in illegally into this country it\u2019s mind-boggling!\u201d he said in an interview with CNN on Wednesday night. Trump, who has already sparked a minor diplomatic incident and lost business deals with five companies over his remarks about Mexicans, claimed that statistics show that Latino immigrants are more likely to perpetrate rape than the wider population. However, the Fusion article he referred to said 80% of women crossing the Mexican border are raped along the way, often by criminal gangs, traffickers or corrupt officials. When CNN host Don Lemon pointed out that Trump had misread the article, the former Apprentice host said: \u201cWell, somebody\u2019s doing the raping, Don! I mean somebody\u2019s doing it! Who\u2019s doing the raping? Who\u2019s doing the raping?\u201dThere are no centrally recorded government statistics on the ethnicity of convicted rapists in the US. Department store Macy\u2019s on Wednesday became the fifth big company to have ended partnerships with Trump following his attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dTV networks NBC Universal, Grupo Televisa, Ora TV and Univision have already cut ties with Trump and the Miss Universe contest, which he part-owns. Mexico is refusing to send a contestant to Miss Universe this year because of the row.\u201cWe are disappointed and distressed by recent remarks about immigrants from Mexico. We do not believe the disparaging characterizations portray an accurate picture of the many Mexicans, Mexican Americans and Latinos who have made so many valuable contributions to the success of our nation,\u201d Macy\u2019s said.Televisa, Mexico\u2019s largest television network, said Trump has \u201coffended the entire Mexican population\u201d and Ora, which is owned by the world\u2019s second-richest man, Carlos Slim, described Trump\u2019s comments as \u201cracist\u201d. ", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "Mexico", "Race issues"], "title": "Donald Trump doubles down on Mexico 'rapists' comments despite outrage"},{"date": "2015-09-24T12:00:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Pope Francis will meet with the mighty and the meek during his five-day visit to the US.After meeting the president, speaking to Congress and addressing the United Nations, the Pope will visit Our Lady Queen of Angels, a Catholic school in East Harlem.There the \u201cpeople\u2019s pope\u201d will meet with day-laborers, unaccompanied minors and other migrants who fled violence in Central America, victims of religious persecution and aspiring first generation college students. Related: Have you met a pope? Share your photos, videos and stories Among them will be the Duque family.Francisco Duque Gonzalez and his wife, Maria Silvia Casta\u00f1eda, immigrated from Mexico to the US in the early 2000s, seeking a better life for their two young children. \u201cMexico was very difficult to survive. It was very hard to find a job,\u201d Duque told the Guardian. After they crossed the border, they came to New York. At first it was very difficult. Both Duque and Casta\u00f1eda struggled to find work because they didn\u2019t have the proper paperwork.Duque said he eventually made the difficult decision to use fake documentation to find work. Not long after, he took a job at Stewart international airport in Newburgh, New York.The family, which had expanded by two since they moved to the US, lived happily in their new country for several years. Then one night, Duque, by then a supervisor, heard a manager say over the radio that \u201cnice personnel\u201d wanted to speak with him. \u201cWhen I walk[ed] to see this \u2018nice person\u2019, I saw the logo \u2018ICE\u2019,\u201d Duque said referring to the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t \u2018nice\u2019 but it was Ice.\u201dHe and several other workers were arrested and put in jail. Duque was charged with using forged immigration documents, and was told he could either sign his deportation document or remain in jail.Duque said his family is in the US now, and in Mexico he would only find unemployment and poverty. It wasn\u2019t a choice. This period was a trying one for the family. The eldest daughter, Silvia, was diagnosed with diabetes. With Duque in a detention center and Casta\u00f1eda at the hospital with Silvia, the younger girls found themselves cared for by people they didn\u2019t know well.\u201cThe most difficult time of my life was when my dad was gone,\u201d said Fatima.Through neighbors, Casta\u00f1eda was connected with the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, who has kept Duque in the country and with his family. Related: Show us: What does today's American Catholic family look like? \u201cIt doesn\u2019t matter what your immigration status is, you have status in the sight of God,\u201d said Monsignor Kevin Sullivan, the executive director of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. \u201cTherefore if you need a meal, if you need a place to live, if you need a job, we\u2019re going to work with you in the best way possible to make sure that those basic human rights are going to be met.\u201dCatholic Charities took on Duque\u2019s case and helped secure his release from the detention center he had been transferred to in New Jersey. Over the course of more than 100 hearings in criminal and immigration courts, Duque\u2019s lawyer has argued that the arrest was unlawful because the officers did not have a search warrant. The case is ongoing. Meanwhile, Duque and his family have begun to rebuild their lives. They live in Margaretville, New York, a rural town in the Catskills mountains. Duque now works as a handyman and his wife assists him. His older daughters Silvia Celeste, 19, and Fatima Andrea, 15, qualify for temporary legal residency and his youngest daughters Vanessa Corina, 12, and Aurura, 6, were born in the US and are citizens.Ahead of Francis\u2019s visit to New York, Fatima has prepared a letter that will be presented to him along with letters from other immigrants. In the letter she described her dreams for a better life, and said that she hopes to go to college and become a lawyer, but said she is restricted by the current immigration laws.\u201cI want to do so much, but I can\u2019t,\u201d she wrote in the letter. \u201cI want to be able to.\u201dWhen the pope arrives in East Harlem on Friday afternoon, he will first meet with 250 elementary school children from Queen of Angels, which mostly serves low-income, immigrant children, and three other nearby Catholic schools. Francis will then go to the school\u2019s gymnasium, where he will meet with immigrants who have been helped by Catholic Charities. \u201cThat the pope has chosen to make the plight of immigrants and refugees his cause will make it such an incredibly moving experience,\u201d Sullivan said. For the Duque family, it is the opportunity of a lifetime. \u201cTo the meet the pope is the answer of God because we had all these problems and we never gave up,\u201d said Duque. \u201cThis is our prize.\u201d", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "US news", "Christianity", "Religion", "The papacy", "New York", "Migration"], "title": "Pope Francis to meet New York family that faced deportation to Mexico"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:30:09Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "People vanishing into thin air, mass graves filled with bones so small DNA tests are impossible to conduct and dismembered bodies dumped in abandoned trucks are now so common in Mexico that they hardly make front-page news. But the Ayotzinapa tragedy \u2013 as the disappearance of 43 students in the Mexican city of Iguala a year ago is now known, in reference to the school where the students came from \u2013 is different. Related: Mexico is outraged over citizens killed in Egypt but ignores the dead at home | Daniel Pe\u00f1a It\u2019s been a year since they went missing, revealing a country riddled with violence and horror, and pressure over the handling of the investigations is mounting. The only way forward for the Mexican authorities is to show that they are serious about finding out what happened to the 43 on 26 September 2014 and ensure it never happens again.The tragedy has revealed a human rights crisis of epic proportions, with nearly 30,000 men, women and children disappeared or missing in the last few years alone. But more than that, it has peeled the mask off the Mexican government\u2019s negligence.For years, President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto\u2019s administration has not done enough to respond to countless allegations of torture, extrajudicial executions and disappearances. They blame organized crime for such problems, simplifying a complex network of criminality and corruption.According to the official narrative, those tortured, killed or disappeared are the victims of unscrupulous and extremely powerful criminal gangs or are somehow to be blamed for the abuses they suffer. Investigations into any kind of human rights abuses are routinely so poor that examinations of crime scenes are negligent or non-existent.When pressure mounts, authorities round up a number of suspects who quickly take responsibility \u2013 and later report having been tortured to confess to the crimes. In 2013, Mexico\u2019s National Human Rights Commission said it had received 1,505 complaints of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, 600% more than in 2003. Meanwhile, there is a lack of prosecution of those accused of torture. According to the Federal Judicial Council, federal courts dealt with 123 prosecutions for torture between 2005 and 2013, and just seven resulted in convictions under the federal law.The Mexican justice system is so flawed no one expects much from it anymore. Trials over human rights abuses are extremely rare and relatives of the disappeared are left waiting in desperation or forced to look for their loved ones themselves.In this backdrop, the disappearance of the 43 Ayotzinapa students should not be a surprise. But it has struck a chord and cornered the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration into taking what can only be described as desperate steps to show it is actually taking action. But these steps don\u2019t appear to be actually accomplishing anything.First came the \u201chistorical truth\u201d when the country\u2019s attorney general said, on 27 January, that the police had arrested the students before handing them over to a renowned local drug gang. In turn, Guerreros Unidos, as it is known, were said to have killed them, burned their bodies in a local dumpster, before packing the remains in large bags and throwing them into a nearby river. On 6 September 2015, a group of independent experts appointed by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights issued a 500-page report refuting the theory as scientifically impossible.But the Mexican authorities didn\u2019t take the criticism seriously. As the first year anniversary of the disappearances approached, with 110 arrests made, the authorities called a press conference and announced that they had found a bone matching the DNA of 20-year-old Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz, one of the disappeared students. Experts from the Argentinean forensic anthropology team found: \u201cthe genetic coincidence found during the DNA tests is not high enough for it to be considered a positive identification of Jhosivani Guerrero de la Cruz.\u201dIt is still not too late for officials to hold their hands up, admit the serious mistakes made to date and redirect investigations into the disappearances. Failing to take any action will only sink the Pe\u00f1a Nieto administration deeper into suspicion.The president and administration were once hailed as the country\u2019s hope, but now they are desperately trying to hold on to any shred of credibility. The first crucial step to rebuilding this trust lies in answering a simple question \u2013 where are the 43 Ayotzinapa students?", "tags": ["Mexico", "Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto"], "title": "When will the 43 disappeared Mexico students find justice? | Erika Guevara-Rosas"},{"date": "2015-09-23T12:15:40Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "On the night of 26 September 2014, a group of students in the Mexican state of Guerrero were ambushed by municipal police as they traveled in a convoy of buses through the city of Iguala. Five people, including two students, were killed when the officers opened fire on the buses, and another student was later found dead, his body showing signs of horrific torture. Forty-three other students simply disappeared without trace.A government investigation soon concluded that the police \u2013 in the pay of a local drug gang called Guerreros Unidos \u2013 mistook the students for members a rival drug gang known as Los Rojos.As the first anniversary of the events approaches, however, momentum is growing behind the hypothesis that real target of the attack was not the students \u2013 but the bus they were traveling in. Speculation has focused on the theory that the students unwittingly commandeered a vehicle which was carrying a hidden shipment of heroin or money, which the corrupt police officers were dispatched to hunt down and recover.\u201cThe hypothesis that the students were confused with a rival gang has been completely discounted,\u201d said Carlos Beristain, one of a group of independent experts assembled by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to pick over the government\u2019s investigation into the massacre. \u201cThe hypothesis about the bus is strong. There are elements pointing to it, and it would explain the modus operandi of that night.\u201dThe students\u2019 disappearance unleashed a wave of public outrage fueled equally by attack itself and the narco-corruption which has enabled criminals to infiltrate local governments across the country.Anger also focussed on the government\u2019s apparent tolerance of such corruption which, for many, implied a degree of federal complicity in the horror.Under pressure to prove it was serious about getting to the bottom of the case, the government agreed to allow international experts access to its investigation.The report\u2019s conclusions have in turn contributed to anger over the case, and are expected to help swell the numbers at demonstrations planned this Saturday to mark the first anniversary.\u201cThey tried to confuse people with all the vile lies they told,\u201d said Manuel Mart\u00ednez, a tutor at the missing students\u2019 teacher-training college. \u201cThe report has given us new energy. It has given the movement new life.\u201dThe report draws on police and army communications that show that the students\u2019 movements were monitored by security forces from the moment they left their college in the town of Ayotzinapa aboard two buses.The official logs also indicate that the security forces knew the students were on a mission to get more buses to carry protestors to another demonstration, something they did regularly \u2013 and usually peacefully \u2013 after a negotiation with the drivers. The experts also say there is nothing to indicate that anybody, not even Guerreros Unidos, was particularly concerned about the students\u2019 presence in Iguala until they sought to leave the city. By then they had three more buses in their charge.The report has focused its attention on one of these additional vehicles, the so-called \u201cfifth bus\u201d.Piecing together fragmented evidence referring to the bus in the early stages of the official investigation, the experts concluded that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d is the only one that was stopped by federal police, rather than shot by municipal police. It was also, they say, the only bus where the students were ordered out at gunpoint, but not actually attacked, and the only one that was driven away from the scene.After that the \u201cfifth bus\u201d simply disappears from the case file, without explanation.\u201cWe are not making judgements and we are not speculating,\u201d expert Beristain said. \u201cWe are dealing only with the evidence that has produced an uncomfortable truth.\u201dThe hypothesis that the bus may have had hidden valuable cargo also draws from the fact that the mountains beyond Iguala are one of the main areas for opium poppy production in Mexico.\u201cThe [heroin] business that moves through the city of Iguala could explain the extreme violence and massive nature of the attack ... due to the existence of a bus that had been taken by the students but not detained. Until now this line of investigation hasn\u2019t been explored,\u201d the report concluded.The report also highlights an unrelated indictment in Chicago of eight alleged Guerreros Unidos traffickers.The ring, according to the Justice Department statement announcing the charges in December 2014, \u201cworked with various narcotics sources in Mexico to import wholesale amounts of heroin and cocaine from Mexico to Illinois, often concealing the narcotics in commercial passenger buses\u201d.A DEA agent supported the charges in an affidavit that contains translated fragments from intercepted telephone conversations in 2013 and 2014. \u201cYour aunt gets here between 8 and 9 in the morning with the kids. The other lady arrives at 7 to 8,\u201d said one of conversations between two of the defendants. Prosecutors argue that the \u201caunt\u201d and the \u201cother lady\u201d were code for buses, and \u201ckids\u201d for heroin. One of the numbers monitored in the Chicago case has an Iguala area code.The government has responded cautiously to the report, welcoming its findings as a contribution to uncovering the whole story, while choosing to ignore the questions it raises about the credibility of its investigation.\u201cToday we have more elements to help us clear up these unfortunate events,\u201d said President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto earlier this month. He did not mention the fact that the official version has not changed since November when it was described as the \u201chistorical truth\u201d by his then attorney general.\u201cThe case is still open,\u201d Pe\u00f1a Nieto added. \u201cThe investigation continues.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Drugs", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Mexico Ayotzinapa massacre: new theory suggests illicit cargo motivated attack"},{"date": "2015-07-31T18:43:06Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "It was mid-afternoon when a huge boom of thunder startled the Ram\u00edrez family as they tended their maize crops in the tiny mountainous community of El Encinal, in Mexico\u2019s central state of Guanajuato.The family, four adult sisters and their five children, sought shelter from the sudden torrential downpour under a squat mesquite tree \u2013 and it was there, as they covered their heads with flimsy sheets of plastic, that they were struck by lightning. Three of the women and four children died in the lightning strike last Friday. The other two, an eight-year-old boy and 26-year-old woman survived with burns. Mexico has the worst lightning death rate in the Americas with an average of 220 fatalities a year. The vast majority of victims are poor small-scale farmers who have no access to safe, sturdy buildings or hard topped vehicles during a storm, and are ignorant of the dangers posed by sheltering under trees and flimsy rain shelters.Lightning kills between 6,000 and 24,000 people worldwide each year. Multiple deaths, like the case of the Ram\u00edrez family, attract media attention but 90% of cases are single deaths which are rarely reported, making them difficult to track.  Related: South African politician says number of lightning deaths is rising The highest death tolls occur in the poorest African and Asian countries where large sections of the population work outside as subsistence farmers, and live in simple homes which can catch fire if struck by a lightning bolt. In Malawi, the annual death rate is 84 per million people, compared to 2.7 per million in Mexico and 0.3 per million in the US. In India, 2,500 died from lightning strikes last year. \u201cFatalities largely depend on socio-economic factors and not the frequency of lightning strikes,\u201d said Ronald Holle, a global lightning expert at Vaisala Inc in Arizona. \u201cMost fatalities occur where people don\u2019t have a safe place to go day or night. They work all day in labour intensive agriculture, and at night go home to thatched roof or adobe houses with no metal, plumbing or wiring to provide a safe path for the lightning.\u201dIn Mexico, at least 7,300 people were killed by lightning strikes between 1979 and 2011, according to the first ever national study published last year. It is a country prone to seasonal tropical thunderstorms, and the majority of deaths happened in the first half of the rainy season, between June and August. Boys aged 10 to 19 were the most common victims as they generally spent more time outdoors working and playing football. Almost two-thirds of the deaths occurred in seven of the country\u2019s 32 states. The state of Mexico, known as Edomex in Spanish, has suffered most fatalities, while Guanajuato has the fourth highest death rate.In Edomex, researchers were able to pinpoint most deaths to 11 of the 125 municipalities [counties] where the majority of people eke out a living through farming. Here, there was a high concentration of indigenous communities and low formal education levels, with a greater susceptibility to myths and folklores about supernatural aspects of natural phenomena.The large number of deaths in Mexico cannot be explained by the amount of lightning, but by the government\u2019s failure to implement education and prevention strategies in communities living and working in vulnerable conditions, the study found. \u201cHaving cars or buses near fields where people could wait out storms would do the job. Rain shelters are death traps; they are utterly useless at protecting people,\u201d said Holle.Vaisala\u2019s real-time global lightning detection network, which is based on concepts originally developed at the University of Arizona and Stanford University, currently captures 1.5 million to 4 million lightning strokes each day of the year.The data has helped prove that fatalities and injuries are largely down to preventable factors rather than the quantity of lightning strikes.In the developed world, the death rate from lightning has dropped substantially.In the US, annual lightning deaths have fallen from 400 in the 1930s to around 30 today despite a growing population. This is down to a move from small-scale manual farming to large farms operating with lightning-safe machinery, medical advances in CPR, changes in telephone technology and public awareness campaigns, according to John Jensenius, lightning specialist at US National Weather Service.\u201cIn countries like Mexico, deaths are still about people having to spend a lot of time outside for their livelihoods. In the US, deaths are now mainly linked to people doing leisure activities like hiking, climbing and fishing, which makes them vulnerable during a storm.\u201d In Africa, lightning strikes which hit ramshackle schools account for hundreds of child deaths each year, according to the African Centres for Lightning and Electromagnetics. The network is trying to raise money to install lightning rods \u2013 invented by Benjamin Franklin in the 18th century \u2013 in African schools which would carry lightning safely into the ground. It\u2019s not just about preventing deaths \u2013 10 times as many people are injured each year. A strike typically shoots 200 to 300 million volts of electricity through the body, compared with 120 volts from a normal household appliance. Injuries are predominantly neurological, caused by the heart stopping and a lack of oxygen to the brain, and range from short-term headaches and numbness to permanent paralysis. Holle said: \u201cIt is entirely possible to protect people from lightning. It all boils down to economics.\u201d", "tags": ["Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Africa", "Malawi"], "title": "Deadly lightning strike in Mexico reveals plight of poorest citizens"},{"date": "2015-07-23T20:28:41Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump on Thursday pressed ahead with a visit to Laredo, close to the US-Mexico border, despite his invitation to the city being withdrawn by the US border patrol council. Related: 'He's not wanted': immigration activists to protest at Donald Trump border visit The Republican presidential candidate had been invited to tour the region by a local chapter of the border agents\u2019 union, but the group dropped all events with Trump after protesters announced plans to rally against his arrival.On Thursday afternoon, the 69-year-old business mogul was duly greeted at Laredo international airport by protesters, although Trump claimed the crowd were supporters cheering his arrival.\u201cYou look at the crowds outside, the crowds are all screaming in favour of Trump. Everybody wants me,\u201d Trump told reporters at the airport.Signs carried by the crowd included: \u201cLulac [the League of United Latin American Citizens civil rights group] likes veterans, not bigots\u201d and \u201cTrump\u2019s hair is illegal\u201d.\u201cJohn McCain is a hero, Trump is a chump,\u201d read another, referencing Trump\u2019s recent characterisation of McCain, who spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, as \u201cnot a war hero\u201d.Demonstrators in Laredo, which has a 95.6% Hispanic and Latino population, were chiefly angry at Trump\u2019s visit given his series of comments criticising immigrants and Mexico. The former Apprentice host has claimed that Mexico sends \u201crapists\u201d and \u201cdrug dealers\u201d to the US and has promised to make Mexico pay for the construction of a wall along the entirety of the border.Trump held a short question and answer session with reporters in the city, where he said there was a \u201ctremendous danger with illegals coming in\u201d. Asked if he had seen any evidence to support his claims regarding Mexico sending its criminals across the border, Trump replied in the affirmative.\u201cYes I have. And I\u2019ve heard it. I\u2019ve heard it from a lot of different people,\u201d Trump said, speaking approximately one hour after he had arrived in Laredo.Asked for specifics, Trump said: \u201cWe\u2019ll be showing you the evidence.\u201dTrump repeated previous claims that he \u201cwill win the Hispanic vote\u201d, citing a 16 July poll in Nevada which had Trump at 31.4% among Hispanic voters regarding Republican presidential hopefuls. He did not reference a Univision poll, published the same day, which showed that 79% of Hispanic voters found Trump\u2019s comments on illegal immigration offensive, while 71% had an unfavourable view of him.The US border patrol council had invited Trump to the city and had planned a series of events. The council withdrew the invitation on Thursday morning.\u201cAfter careful consideration of all the factors involved in this event and communicating with members of the National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) at the national level, it has been decided by Local 2455 to pull out of all events involving Donald Trump,\u201d said Hector Garza, the president of the border patrol chapter that had been due to host the businessman.Trump said the chapter had \u201creceived pressure at national level\u201d to drop the planned events.Laredo\u2019s city manager, Jesus Olivares, joined Trump on stage, but there was a moment of awkwardness when Olivares said he was opposed to building a wall on the border \u2013 a central tenet of Trump\u2019s campaign.\u201cWe don\u2019t think that\u2019s necessary at this time,\u201d Olivares said, as Trump stood behind him. \u201cI think there\u2019s other ways that we can work together with the federal government.\u201dTrump has vowed to make Mexico pay for the construction of the wall, although he appeared to backtrack from the idea of a west-to-east wall following Olivares\u2019s comments.\u201cOh yes in certain sections you have to have a wall, absolutely,\u201d Trump said. Related: Is this guy serious? Could Republican frontrunner Donald Trump actually win? The press conference was almost entirely restricted to questions on immigration, a theme to which Trump has returned after he faced severe criticism for his comments regarding McCain. On Thursday morning his campaign announced the formation of a \u201cVeterans for Trump coalition\u201d in New Hampshire, in an apparent attempt at contrition following the row.While few commentators believe Trump has a real chance of winning the Republican nomination, let alone the presidency, Trump said he was convinced he would be the next commander-in-chief.\u201cI think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 we\u2019ll see soon enough but I think I\u2019ll get the nomination \u2013 the best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run, probably against Hillary,\u201d he said.\u201cShe is going to be beaten, and I\u2019m the one to beat her.\u201d", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Mexico", "US elections 2016", "US news"], "title": "Donald Trump visits US-Mexico border despite invitation being withdrawn"},{"date": "2015-07-13T16:15:02Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Americans need Joaquin \u201cEl Chapo\u201d Guzman like a machine needs grease. We don\u2019t need the flesh and blood of the infamous Mexican drug lord, who escaped from prison for a second time on Saturday, himself, so much as we need the idea \u2013 the story \u2013 of him.We need El Chapo in the abstract like we need the guiding principles of freedom or liberty or free speech, because the Sinaloa cartel kingpin is one of our great American institutions: he exemplifies our story of Mexico as impoverished, backward, violent, dirty, dumb, a corrupt state, a failing state, a failed state. (That sort of rhetoric has overtaken my Facebook feed since Chapo disappeared from a maximum security prison late Saturday night.) Related: Donald Trump's Latino comments are just GOP orthodoxy in a cruder shell | Jeb Lund No matter where Americans stand ideologically, El Chapo confirms what they know to be true about their southern neighbor. For the American right, Guzman confirms Donald Trump\u2019s blanket indictment of Mexicans, when he called them drug traffickers, rapists and criminals in his presidential candidacy speech. The American left needs El Chapo as a way to restore or affirm our liberal sense of identity and, perhaps, our very purpose in life: to better the lives of people in narcoviolence-ridden Mexico and clear our conscience. El Chapo personifies the ultimate American anxiety of the great brown invasion.My initiation into this perspective came in third grade in North Austin, Texas, when our class watched the John Wayne film The Alamo. For the uninitiated, the 1960 film is basically Wayne killing brown people for two hours. I remember sitting through the film and watching people who looked like my father, my cousins, my uncles, my brother getting killed en masse onscreen. They were shot, slashed, pierced, crushed, gouged, exploded by cannon fire. I took away the fact that because I was Mexican-American, I was an undesirable. I was historically, genetically, the enemy of the state. I was like the guy who killed John Wayne, supposedly the most American of men. When we \u201cremember the Alamo,\u201d we\u2019re remembering the end-game of what unchecked Mexican power looks like: barbarous and violent.There\u2019s no denying Chapo Guzman is both of those things. But this fear of Mexico has long exceeded the actions of one man, informing the laws behind prohibition, the outlawing of marijuana, Nixon\u2019s war on drugs, Reagan\u2019s war on drugs and finally, the Merida Initiative in 2008, a pact between Mexico and the United States designed to fight organized crime.Evidence now shows that this long-term undermining of the Mexican state may have inadvertently propelled Guzman into power. It was our drug wars that pushed the prices of his commodities through the roof, our drug habits that have fuelled his empire. But we need him to point to the ongoing failure of Mexico even though he more accurately represents the result of our own failed policies. So as Americans obsess about containing Chapo, the man, that focus is also a misplaced anxiety about containing the border, containing drugs and containing the movement of people when we should be focusing on reforming our own dangerous policies and attitudes. This single story of Mexico, designed to resonate with our anxieties, is more dangerous than anything that might actually cross our southern border. And the story of Mexico and America is more complex than a single bogeyman. ", "tags": ["Mexico", "Drugs", "Americas"], "title": "El Chapo embodies all of America's misguided anxieties about Mexico | Daniel Pe\u00f1a"},{"date": "2015-07-04T18:38:43Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As controversy over his remarks about Mexican immigrants to the US continued to attract international condemnation and damage his commercial relationships, the White House hopeful Donald Trump drew heavy fire from Marco Rubio, a Hispanic member of the 14-strong GOP presidential field.On Friday, Rubio released a strongly worded statement which said: \u201cTrump\u2019s comments are not just offensive and inaccurate, but also divisive.\u201dAt the launch of his presidential campaign two weeks ago, Trump said: \u201c[Mexico is] sending people that have lots of problems, and they are bringing those problems to us. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dThe government of Mexico called the comments \u201cprejudiced\u201d and \u201cabsurd\u201d; the Venezuelan president, Nicol\u00e1s Maduro, said Trump was \u201cmentally ill\u201d.Hispanic leaders in the US called on Republicans to condemn Trump\u2019s remarks. Many candidates have been cautious and relatively mild. The former Florida governor Jeb Bush, the frontrunner whose wife was born in Mexico and who speaks fluent Spanish, said Trump was \u201cwrong\u201d and added: \u201cMaybe we\u2019ll have a chance to have an honest discussion about it onstage.\u201d Related: Hispanic leaders call for Republican candidates to condemn Donald Trump Trump, running second in some polls, is on course to appear onstage in the first Republican debate, which will be hosted in Cleveland by Fox on 6 August. Only the top 10 in the currently 14-strong GOP field will be allowed to participate.Rubio\u2019s statement continued: \u201cOur next president needs to be someone who brings Americans together \u2013 not someone who continues to divide. Our broken immigration system is something that needs to be solved, and comments like this move us further from \u2013 not closer to \u2013 a solution. We need leaders who offer serious solutions to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.\u201dOn Saturday, speaking on the Fox & Friends morning show, Trump attacked Rubio for being \u201cvery weak on immigration\u201d. He also said the former New York governor George Pataki, who has criticised his remarks, was \u201ca sad figure\u201d and \u201ca terrible governor of New York\u201d who had \u201czero numbers in the polls\u201d.Trump said he \u201crespected\u201d the Texas senator Ted Cruz, who has defended his remarks on immigration.On Friday, Trump lost the support of another US institution when the chairman of Nascar said the auto-racing series would not host its season-end awards at his Trump National Doral resort in Miami.TV networks Univision and NBC and department store Macy\u2019s have said they will cut commercial ties with Trump. In response, Trump has imposed a ban on Miami-based Univision executives using the golf course at his Doral resort, and filed a $500m lawsuit over the network\u2019s withdrawal of support for the Miss USA beauty pageant, in which he holds a stake.He has also clashed with the actress America Ferrera, who posted an open letter on huffingtonpost.com in which she wrote: \u201cWhat you just did with your straight talk was send more Latino voters to the polls than several registration rallies combined! Thank you for that.\u201dIn response, via Twitter, Trump said: \u201cThank you America Ferrara for supporting lawless criminals from Mexico.\u201dOn Fox on Saturday, Trump said: \u201cThis isn\u2019t good for my brand. I think it\u2019s bad for my brand. Maybe I\u2019m leading in polls, but this is certainly not good. I lose customers, I lose people.\u201dHe added: \u201cI had one of the top shows on television, The Apprentice, and I decided not to do it because I wanted to do this. Who gives up a top, top show? \u201cPlus, I gave up hundreds of millions of dollars of deals because I\u2019m doing this. And then you hear about Nascar, and NBC, and you hear about different people who drop Trump because Trump wants safety.\u201dOn Friday, Nascar spokesman David Higdon said: \u201cWe looked at everything we saw coming down and what we heard from our sponsors and our partners and what we feel we should be doing, and that\u2019s what led us to the decision today.\u201dMarcus Lemonis, chief executive of one such sponsor, Camping World, released a letter which said: \u201cDue to recent and ongoing blatantly bigoted and racist comments from Donald Trump in regards to immigrants of the United States, I would like to inform you that I will not, nor will any representative of Camping World, participate or attend in the ceremonial event if it is held at any Trump property.\u201dUndaunted, Trump doubled \u2013 or possibly tripled or quadrupled \u2013 down on his controversial comments, telling Fox News the shooting dead of a 32-year-old woman by an illegal immigrant with an extensive arrest record in San Francisco was \u201cyet another example of why we must secure our border immediately\u201d.\u201cThis is an absolutely disgraceful situation and I am the only one that can fix it. Nobody else has the guts to even talk about it,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "Marco Rubio", "US news", "US politics", "US elections 2016", "Republicans", "US immigration", "Mexico", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "'Offensive and inaccurate': Marco Rubio rejects Donald Trump's Mexico remarks"},{"date": "2015-07-02T19:58:47Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Donald Trump doubled down on his claim that Mexican immigrants are responsible for a large number of rapes in the US on Wednesday. \u201cWho\u2019s doing the raping,\u201d Trump shot back in an interview when challenged on his controversial remarks.The businessman and would-be president, who launched his presidential campaign with an attack on Mexican immigrants as drug dealers, criminals and rapists, has claimed that there is \u201cmind-boggling\u201d link between rape and illegal immigration. \u201cIf you look at the statistics of people coming, you look at the statistics on rape, on crime, on everything coming in illegally into this country it\u2019s mind-boggling!\u201d he said in an interview with CNN on Wednesday night. Trump, who has already sparked a minor diplomatic incident and lost business deals with five companies over his remarks about Mexicans, claimed that statistics show that Latino immigrants are more likely to perpetrate rape than the wider population. However, the Fusion article he referred to said 80% of women crossing the Mexican border are raped along the way, often by criminal gangs, traffickers or corrupt officials. When CNN host Don Lemon pointed out that Trump had misread the article, the former Apprentice host said: \u201cWell, somebody\u2019s doing the raping, Don! I mean somebody\u2019s doing it! Who\u2019s doing the raping? Who\u2019s doing the raping?\u201dThere are no centrally recorded government statistics on the ethnicity of convicted rapists in the US. Department store Macy\u2019s on Wednesday became the fifth big company to have ended partnerships with Trump following his attack on Mexico for \u201csending people [to the US] that have lots of problems. They are bringing drugs, and bringing crime, and their rapists.\u201dTV networks NBC Universal, Grupo Televisa, Ora TV and Univision have already cut ties with Trump and the Miss Universe contest, which he part-owns. Mexico is refusing to send a contestant to Miss Universe this year because of the row.\u201cWe are disappointed and distressed by recent remarks about immigrants from Mexico. We do not believe the disparaging characterizations portray an accurate picture of the many Mexicans, Mexican Americans and Latinos who have made so many valuable contributions to the success of our nation,\u201d Macy\u2019s said.Televisa, Mexico\u2019s largest television network, said Trump has \u201coffended the entire Mexican population\u201d and Ora, which is owned by the world\u2019s second-richest man, Carlos Slim, described Trump\u2019s comments as \u201cracist\u201d. ", "tags": ["Donald Trump", "US news", "Mexico", "Race issues"], "title": "Donald Trump doubles down on Mexico 'rapists' comments despite outrage"},{"date": "2015-09-24T12:00:08Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Pope Francis will meet with the mighty and the meek during his five-day visit to the US.After meeting the president, speaking to Congress and addressing the United Nations, the Pope will visit Our Lady Queen of Angels, a Catholic school in East Harlem.There the \u201cpeople\u2019s pope\u201d will meet with day-laborers, unaccompanied minors and other migrants who fled violence in Central America, victims of religious persecution and aspiring first generation college students. Related: Have you met a pope? Share your photos, videos and stories Among them will be the Duque family.Francisco Duque Gonzalez and his wife, Maria Silvia Casta\u00f1eda, immigrated from Mexico to the US in the early 2000s, seeking a better life for their two young children. \u201cMexico was very difficult to survive. It was very hard to find a job,\u201d Duque told the Guardian. After they crossed the border, they came to New York. At first it was very difficult. Both Duque and Casta\u00f1eda struggled to find work because they didn\u2019t have the proper paperwork.Duque said he eventually made the difficult decision to use fake documentation to find work. Not long after, he took a job at Stewart international airport in Newburgh, New York.The family, which had expanded by two since they moved to the US, lived happily in their new country for several years. Then one night, Duque, by then a supervisor, heard a manager say over the radio that \u201cnice personnel\u201d wanted to speak with him. \u201cWhen I walk[ed] to see this \u2018nice person\u2019, I saw the logo \u2018ICE\u2019,\u201d Duque said referring to the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t \u2018nice\u2019 but it was Ice.\u201dHe and several other workers were arrested and put in jail. Duque was charged with using forged immigration documents, and was told he could either sign his deportation document or remain in jail.Duque said his family is in the US now, and in Mexico he would only find unemployment and poverty. It wasn\u2019t a choice. This period was a trying one for the family. The eldest daughter, Silvia, was diagnosed with diabetes. With Duque in a detention center and Casta\u00f1eda at the hospital with Silvia, the younger girls found themselves cared for by people they didn\u2019t know well.\u201cThe most difficult time of my life was when my dad was gone,\u201d said Fatima.Through neighbors, Casta\u00f1eda was connected with the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, who has kept Duque in the country and with his family. Related: Show us: What does today's American Catholic family look like? \u201cIt doesn\u2019t matter what your immigration status is, you have status in the sight of God,\u201d said Monsignor Kevin Sullivan, the executive director of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. \u201cTherefore if you need a meal, if you need a place to live, if you need a job, we\u2019re going to work with you in the best way possible to make sure that those basic human rights are going to be met.\u201dCatholic Charities took on Duque\u2019s case and helped secure his release from the detention center he had been transferred to in New Jersey. Over the course of more than 100 hearings in criminal and immigration courts, Duque\u2019s lawyer has argued that the arrest was unlawful because the officers did not have a search warrant. The case is ongoing. Meanwhile, Duque and his family have begun to rebuild their lives. They live in Margaretville, New York, a rural town in the Catskills mountains. Duque now works as a handyman and his wife assists him. His older daughters Silvia Celeste, 19, and Fatima Andrea, 15, qualify for temporary legal residency and his youngest daughters Vanessa Corina, 12, and Aurura, 6, were born in the US and are citizens.Ahead of Francis\u2019s visit to New York, Fatima has prepared a letter that will be presented to him along with letters from other immigrants. In the letter she described her dreams for a better life, and said that she hopes to go to college and become a lawyer, but said she is restricted by the current immigration laws.\u201cI want to do so much, but I can\u2019t,\u201d she wrote in the letter. \u201cI want to be able to.\u201dWhen the pope arrives in East Harlem on Friday afternoon, he will first meet with 250 elementary school children from Queen of Angels, which mostly serves low-income, immigrant children, and three other nearby Catholic schools. Francis will then go to the school\u2019s gymnasium, where he will meet with immigrants who have been helped by Catholic Charities. \u201cThat the pope has chosen to make the plight of immigrants and refugees his cause will make it such an incredibly moving experience,\u201d Sullivan said. For the Duque family, it is the opportunity of a lifetime. \u201cTo the meet the pope is the answer of God because we had all these problems and we never gave up,\u201d said Duque. \u201cThis is our prize.\u201d", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "US news", "Christianity", "Religion", "The papacy", "New York", "Migration"], "title": "Pope Francis to meet New York family that faced deportation to Mexico"},{"date": "2015-09-18T14:09:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The devastation of the 1985 Mexico City earthquake was swift. In just over a minute \u2013 in the early hours of 19 September, while the city was still asleep \u2013 100,000 houses crumbled, 5,000 people died and roughly five million residents were left without electricity or potable water. On the Televisa broadcast that morning, newscaster Lourdes Guerrero maintained her smile as the room around her began to move. \u201cIt is still shaking a little,\u201d she said into the camera. \u201cBut we must remain calm. We will wait a second so that we can continue talking.\u201d The feed cut to static.Just a few blocks away, the historic city centre, or El Centro, was in pieces. Cathedrals, hospitals, museums and other monuments to Mexican history were destroyed. The Hotel Regis, once the neoclassical centrepiece of the downtown area, was all rubble and ash.Situated between three large tectonic plates, Mexico is a seismological nightmare. Mexico City is its most vulnerable city, built as it is on a sinking lake bed. With a magnitude of 8.1, the 1985 earthquake pushed Mexico far past its breaking point.Three decades later, however, El Centro bears almost no trace of this devastation. With millions of dollars poured into development projects by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, the rubble of 1985 has been replaced by new sidewalks, public furniture, freshly painted tenements and outdoor Wi-Fi. City officials maintain that building codes are enforced, and the mayor\u2019s office has developed a six-point plan in case of future emergencies. In the 30 years since the earthquake, the city government has managed to transform Mexico City\u2019s wealthy centre into a major tourist destination.Yet, in the peripheral zones, beyond the tourist\u2019s reach, informal settlements continue to proliferate. There, codes and regulations are irrelevant. Residents build with whatever materials they can find and afford, and they continue to struggle to gain access to basic services such as water and electricity. For all the improvements of the last 30 years, roughly 60% of the city is made up of these unregulated, informal and vulnerable zones.The growth of these settlements over the last three decades attests to the persistence of poverty and inequality in Mexico City \u2013 and as a result, its vulnerability to its next big earthquake.The 1985 earthquake revealed the government\u2019s disregard for the plight of the urban poor \u2013 30 years on, that remainsIn 1985, Mexico City was the world\u2019s largest urban area. With more than 16 million residents, the city had been growing at a ludicrous rate \u2013 over 4% annually through the 1970s, with a growth rate of close to 40% in the city\u2019s periphery. Its economic boom, known as the Mexican Miracle, encouraged heavy migration, and few politicians were eager to stem the flow of incoming labour with strict building codes or regulations. As a result, informal settlements exploded across the city, from expanding tenements in the city centre to makeshift structures along its outer rings.The earthquake revealed the precarity of Mexico City life. Residents of the city\u2019s informal settlements were already travelling long distances each day to reach work. And they were struggling to find water at home. Their fragile routines collapsed in the earthquake. Public transportation halted, water pipes burst and public health facilities \u2013 few of which were built to code \u2013 crumbled.In the days that followed, the ruling-party, PRI, struggled to provide emergency services. While many Mexican residents were still trapped in the rubble, President Miguel de la Madrid focused instead on managing the PR crisis. He did not speak publicly for two days, ordering a media blackout to prevent coverage of the earthquake. When he did speak publicly, he downplayed the death toll and rejected international aid in favour of a PRI-led emergency effort. That effort reached few survivors, focusing almost exclusively on distributing services to loyal PRI supporters.This wasn\u2019t surprising in the context of Mexican political culture. But in the widespread devastation of the earthquake \u2013 with the international community paying close attention \u2013 they appeared excessively corrupt. Resistance to the PRI and its single-party rule had been growing since the 1960s. Their post-earthquake fumbling merely offered the occasion for a broader swath of Mexican society to join the movement.\u201cThe dramatic experience of the earthquake of the September of 1985 switched on the light,\u201d writes Pedro Moctezuma, an activist in Mexico City at the time, \u201cto see the fragility and corruption of the system of construction and the political party apparatus.\u201dIn this political vacuum, local grassroots groups organised the rescue of victims \u2013 known as damnificados \u2013 and reconstructed homes for them. \u201cThose were special days,\u201d said Leslie Serna, founder of the Uni\u00f3n Popular Nueva Tenochtitl\u00e1n Sur, in a recent interview with Mexico City daily newspaper La Jornada. \u201cThe city was just different. Wherever you looked, there were people taking and bringing aid.\u201d One month later, over 40 of these local groups formed the Unified Coordinator of the Damnificados (CUD), a powerful social movement to pressure the PRI to address the needs of the city\u2019s dispossessed.\u201cAfter the earthquake, it\u2019s a whole new story to be told,\u201d says Boston University professor Susan Eckstein, who conducted research on the damnificado movement in the 1980s. \u201cThe earthquake provided a context in which poor people\u2019s movements could really start to take hold.\u201dUnited, the damnificados pushed for \u2013 and won \u2013 major concessions from the ruling party. One month after the earthquake, the PRI expropriated the damaged areas of El Centro to prevent landlords from using the earthquake as an opportunity to evict residents. One year later, under pressure from a strong and organised CUD, the government launched a major reconstruction effort, providing low-income, prefabricated housing to the displaced victims. These reconstruction efforts were part of the broader Renovation of Popular Housing Program (RHP), which produced over 45,000 new housing units under pressure from organised victims.These successes were not merely local. In exposing the weakness and corruption of the PRI, the damnificado movement became the first major step in Mexico\u2019s democratisation. In the years to come, the grassroots alliances of the earthquake mobilisation would link up with politicians who were defecting from the PRI to support a new opposition known as the Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD). Hundreds of activists \u2013 once shut out from the political system \u2013 migrated into the party, hoping to topple the PRI, bringing their pro-poor agenda with them in the process. This \u201cparty-movement,\u201d led by PRI-defector Cuauht\u00e9moc C\u00e1rdenas, challenged the PRI in the 1988 election\u2013 the largest opposition in 70 years \u2013 and set in motion a reform process that brought more power to the local level and away from the PRI\u2019s political castle.The earthquake was, then, both tragedy and opportunity. \u201cWhat happened that morning?\u201d asked journalist Felix Cortes Camarillo. \u201cChannel two left the air, the public power of the President of the Republic and his head of the government of Mexico City failed to appear, and the Mexicans of the Federal District realised that they did not need them.\u201dIn exposing the corruption of the government, the reform movement became the first step in Mexico\u2019s democratisationIn the three decades since, reconstruction efforts have expanded. The city centre \u2013 whose historic buildings were hit hard by the earthquake \u2013 has been completely remodelled. In 2002, the city government launched a public-private partnership with Carlos Slim\u2019s nonprofit foundation, Fundaci\u00f3n del Centro Hist\u00f3rico de la Ciudad de Mexico, to funnel resources into the downtown area. Together with a wave of private investment, the project has installed a new telecommunications infrastructure, renovated old properties and constructed new pedestrian malls.Meanwhile, the government has made major strides in earthquake preparedness. They have established monitoring systems to detect earthquakes before they arrive, new agencies to coordinate responses to a potential earthquake and they have raised crucial funds in case of future emergency. When a 7.4-magnitude quake hit in March 2012, the city was well-prepared, initiating its six-point emergency plan and evacuating public buildings. There were no casualties.Yet these improvements have been limited, by and large, to the city\u2019s central areas. As the epicentre of the 1985 earthquake, this region became the most active site of grassroots mobilisation and, in turn, reconstruction funding. Over time, however, as the private investment in the area intensified \u2013 turning downtown into what many Mexicans call \u201cSlimlandia\u201d \u2013 many of the poor who had previously lived in the city centre began to migrate elsewhere.In 2001, the government introduced \u201cBando Dos,\u201d a policy aimed at incentivising growth in the city\u2019s central delegations and away from its expanding periphery. Yet \u201cBando Dos\u201d has merely intensified pressure on the city centre, pushing up property prices by 30-50%. Low-income residents, many of whom have been living in El Centro for generations, either faced soaring rents or saw an excellent opportunity to sell their hard-won property and pursue cheaper land on the city\u2019s periphery.\u201cThe end of the story is that the market takes over,\u201d says Eckstien. \u201cThe inner city area ultimately falls apart as a unit. The value of the land becomes so important that people give up the land. A lot of people gave up their rights to the housing they acquired in the damnificado movement, undermining the community and solidarity built up in the earthquake response.\u201dOn the periphery, conditions remain dangerous. Informal settlements continue to crop up on cheap land \u2013 cinderblock units constructed with little attention to earthquake safety. According to a recent UN report, building codes rarely impact these construction methods. Mexicans have a long history of modifying their housing stock \u2013 adding new floors or new rooms to accommodate an expanding family unit \u2013 making it more vulnerable to earthquake damage. \u201cThis back and forth between regular and irregular states,\u201d the report notes, \u201creflects the reality that vulnerability-reducing regulations may not reach large classes of housing, nor will be effective long-term without continued enforcement.\u201dYet these settlements are systematically denied that enforcement. The Mexico City government maintains a \u201czero-tolerance\u201d policy with respect to informal settlements \u2013 neither state infrastructure nor state services flow there. That approach was meant to discourage migrants from settling on the urban periphery. Instead, it has denied a large swath of Mexico City\u2019s population \u2013 some 3 million people in 900 settlements \u2013 crucial resources, and done little to stem the construction of new settlements along the way. Under the city government\u2019s \u201czero-tolerance\u201d policy, the very population most vulnerable to earthquakes has been shut out of the project of earthquake preparedness.The root causes of these vulnerabilities, then, are social and political, not merely physical. While urban planners seek to improve codes and expand enforcement, they have done little to address the problems of poverty and displacement that are generating the informal settlements in the first place. \u201cIn relation to social vulnerability, we are more vulnerable, overall because of the high index of poverty in the population,\u201d claims Mario Garza, a government official, in the UN report. \u201cWe are more vulnerable precisely because of the high population density and the large quantity of high-risk settlements that proliferate in the metropolitan zone.\u201dThe Solidarity Plaza in Mexico City\u2019s El Centro is a simple monument. Three large copper hands reach up from a cement block to grip a flagpole. A few feet forward, the date \u201cSeptiembre 19 de 1985\u201d is inscribed in the cement, a commemoration of the earthquake that demolished the Regis Hotel that once stood there. It is intended to remind passersby of the courage of the damnificados, and the progress that has been made as a result of their fight. Trees line the perimeter and, on most days, it is a blurry bustle of tourists and office workers.Yet the spirit of the damnificado movement has all but vanished. Following the earthquake of 1985, hundreds of thousands of Mexico City residents mobilised to improve housing conditions for the poor. They formed grassroots alliances \u2013 the CUD, the Movimiento Urbano Popular, the Asamblea de Barrios \u2013 to challenge the corrupted political machine and construct their own communities. Today, those alliances are either in pieces or disbanded completely. While the government has focused on beautifying El Centro, Mexico City\u2019s civil society has in many ways grown indifferent to the poverty, inequality and vulnerability that continue to beset it.\u201cThe movement died, as far as I can tell,\u201d says Eckstein. \u201cTo keep movements alive, you need new issues. And the damnificados got their housing, got their right to stay. The conditions for sustaining their social movement dissipated.\u201d Theirs was, in many ways, a devil\u2019s bargain, typical of Mexico\u2019s political culture \u2013 gifts in the short term for status quo in the long one. Related: The tragedies of Mexico City\u2019s Tlatelolco housing complex \u2013 a history of cities in 50 buildings, day 31 In their destruction, earthquakes expose more than the physical foundations of the city. They also expose its social and political foundations. In the case of Mexico City, the 1985 earthquake revealed the government\u2019s disregard for the plight of the urban poor. Thirty years later, though, that plight remains.To learn from the Mexico City earthquake of 1985, then, will require more than reconstruction or regulation. If much of the damage of the earthquake was caused by dangerous, informal construction, then the government must address directly the reasons why residents resort to these construction methods \u2013 displacement, poverty and inequality. To address these, the city must first discard its zero-tolerance approach to work proactively with its low-income communities to develop infrastructure, services and homes that are safe for residents in the long term. And it must protect its residents from the rising property prices that displace them from the centre and give rise to vulnerable settlements in the first place.As for the courageous damnificados, Eckstein asks, \u201cwhy did the movement not transform into a broader fight for more issues over a longer period of time?\u201d Why has the legacy of the earthquake mobilisation faded so quickly? \u201cWell, that\u2019s not so easy,\u201d she says. \u201cAnd it is entirely up for debate what those issues will be.\u201dDavid Adler is a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University studying welfare policy in MexicoFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "Earthquakes", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Poverty", "Social exclusion", "Society", "Mexico City holidays"], "title": "The Mexico City earthquake, 30 years on: have its lessons been forgotten?"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-12-19T05:40:45Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The bodies of two Australian surfers found in Mexico have reportedly been handed to Australia\u2019s consulate for repatriation. Related: Three arrested in Mexico over suspected killing of two Australian tourists The two burnt bodies were identified as those of Dean Lucas and Adam Coleman after authorities conducted DNA tests.Sinaloa officials this month arrested three men over the disappearance, but said two suspects remained at large.Lucas and Coleman, who were on a months-long surfing adventure, were due to reach the western city of Guadalajara on 21 November but did not arrive.News Corp Australia reported on Saturday that the bodies had been handed to Australian officials nearly a month after they were found in a burnt out van in Sinaloa state.It also reported that Mexican prosecutors had alleged that the van was pulled over by an SUV with flashing lights, and that police had recovered municipal and federal police uniforms from the suspects.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Mexico", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Western Australian surfers' bodies given to consulate in Mexico \u2013 report"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-12-19T05:40:45Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The bodies of two Australian surfers found in Mexico have reportedly been handed to Australia\u2019s consulate for repatriation. Related: Three arrested in Mexico over suspected killing of two Australian tourists The two burnt bodies were identified as those of Dean Lucas and Adam Coleman after authorities conducted DNA tests.Sinaloa officials this month arrested three men over the disappearance, but said two suspects remained at large.Lucas and Coleman, who were on a months-long surfing adventure, were due to reach the western city of Guadalajara on 21 November but did not arrive.News Corp Australia reported on Saturday that the bodies had been handed to Australian officials nearly a month after they were found in a burnt out van in Sinaloa state.It also reported that Mexican prosecutors had alleged that the van was pulled over by an SUV with flashing lights, and that police had recovered municipal and federal police uniforms from the suspects.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Mexico", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Western Australian surfers' bodies given to consulate in Mexico \u2013 report"},{"date": "2015-12-12T07:00:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the dozen Mexican cowboys knelt down in Sayulita\u2019s dusty rodeo arena, crossing themselves as they prayed, the 14-piece band cranked up its trumpet fanfare and an irate bull was dragged in front of the crowd and readied for action.The first challenger balanced precariously on the fence before leaping on the animal. The bull thrashed wildly, throwing him to the ground in seconds before the cowboy was dragged away as the band blasted on regardless.We winced, but the crowds \u2013 dressed to impress, the men in pristine cowboy hats and girls in skin-tight jeans and stiletto boots \u2013 whooped as they downed cans of Corona Light sold from old ice-filled buckets and waited for the next bout of man versus beast.The hippy-chic coastal town of Sayulita, on the west coast, which mixes Mexican country culture with Pacific surf, boutiques and cool bars, is off the radar of most British travellers. It was discovered by free-range surfers in the 1960s, but savvy travellers can now use a new charter flight with Thomson, from London Gatwick to Puerto Vallarta, just 45 minutes\u2019 drive away through lush jungle, far from the all-inclusive resorts.I was here with my partner and two children, aged five and seven. The day after the rodeo, we wandered down to Sayulita\u2019s magnificent swathe of beach where surfers and paddle-boarders drifted lazily in the early morning glow, waiting for the ideal wave to peel in, as a haze drifted over the sand and the palapa-thatched roofs of clifftop villas blended in with the palms.A bikini-clad girl casually teetered up her long board to \u201chang ten\u201d, while a squadron of pelicans swerved past and a handful of fishing boats putted out to sea. Its beach break has long made Sayulita a surf mecca, and surf schools stack their boards on the sand each morning as they open for business. It\u2019s also big for stand-up paddleboarding, and the world championships were held here in May.In the shady plaza, faded bunting fluttered as indigenous Huichol people in embroidered suits set out their beaded jewellery. A pick-up truck shattered the peace as it clattered along the cobbles, blaring its sales pitch for strawberries from a megaphone taped to the roof. There\u2019s plenty for shoppers in Sayulita: stylish Origenes (Calle Marlin 2) sells leather bags in vibrant tangerine, crimson and apple green, intricately hand-embroidered bedspreads and striped baskets woven by prison inmates, while Boho Wheels\u2019 bike-top shop pops up at night to sell handmade jewellery and purses.Revolucion del Sueno (55 Calle Manuel Navarrete) does a roaring trade in kitsch T-shirts featuring Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, alongside bright throws and bags. Nearby, Artefakto (Delfin #15) stocks unusual ceramics, art and textiles from around the country.On a mission to find Sayulita\u2019s best street food, we queued for chicken mole tacos at hole-in-the-wall Naty\u2019s Cocina (Calle Marlin 13) before enduring mind-bendingly spicy aguachile prawn tostadas at popular stall El Rinconcito (Avenida Revolucion and Rio Zarquito), perching on plastic stools while gringos swerved past on golf carts.To work off the pounds, we trekked through the jungle from Sayulita to sleepier San Pancho, a few miles north, scrambling over fallen trees and following a stream through dense foliage. Giant termite mounds and thick vines helped distract the kids\u2019 from their endless \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d. Apparently we weren\u2019t, and after an hour we were somehow back where we started so opted to drive the few miles the next day instead.San Pancho, with its hipster cafes, galleries and bohemian shops, operates at a lazier pace than Sayulita, and the bars on its quiet beach are perfect for trying micheladas (spicy bloody marys made with beer, tomato juice, lime, chilli and salt) while watching pelicans plummet into the surf.Some evenings the cowboys come to town, prancing their immaculate horses up the main road with cans of beer in hand and their girlfriends on the back, while a band belts out tunes and elderly couples dance in the plaza.We made it back to Sayulita in time for tequila cocktails blended with roasted jalapenos and ginger at Escondido (Calle Marlin 45A), before swaying on swings outside Atico hookah bar (Calle Mariscal, Unit 18) sipping smoky mezcal with chilli salt.Next, crisp calamari at Los Corazones (Calle Jose Mariscal 15A) and a nightcap at Petit Hotel Hafa\u2019s unselfconsciously cool Le Zouave bar (Avenida Revolucion 55), where the French owner was holding court. If you want to be close to the action, Petit Hotel Hafa (doubles from at $50) makes a great budget base \u2013 all scarlet-walled, boho chic with a Mexico-meets-Morocco theme, simple rooms and roof terrace.For seaside accommodation, Casablanca (two-bedroom suites for four with kitchen from $95) is a good family option, with a pool and near the Campamento Tortugero Sayulita turtle camp , where they protect eggs from poachers and where visitors can help release the tiny newborn olive ridley sea turtles when they hatch (from November-February).Elsewhere, the ocean views from the villas at Siete Lunas (doubles from $175) above nearby Playa de los Muertos are spectacular, although the vertiginous plunge from the horseshoe-shaped pool could prove hazardous for kids.The ocean around Sayulita is prime whale-watching territory during the winter months and it\u2019s easy to glimpse enormous humpbacks cruising down the coast on their annual migration as you sit on the beach.Hoping for a close up, we set off early one morning on the 17-metre Ally Cat yacht for a sailing trip to the rocky Marieta Islands, a Unesco biosphere reserve also known for its blue-footed boobies. As we headed across Banderas Bay, a mother and baby humpback arched alongside before a huge whale breached in front of the catamaran. The captain dropped a microphone overboard and the low groan of whale song reverberated.\u201cIt\u2019s a macho one, it sounds like Chewbacca,\u201d said one of the crew. At the uninhabited Marietas islands, we swam past preening blue-footed birds through a cave to a hidden beach, catching snippets of whale song as we snorkelled to the boat. Giddy on mai tais, we lounged at the bow watching dolphins loop past, feeling like extras in an 1980s pop video.Back on dry land, we spent a couple of days exploring the coast just south of Sayulita \u2013 careering along dirt tracks to wild Playa Carricitos, driving along a river bed to deserted Playa Patzcuaro and swimming at tranquil Los Muertos, where bonfire smoke drifted among the graves at the colourful cemetery nestled in the jungle \u2013 until we were finally beached out.Pestered by the kids for more cowboy action, we drove to the laidback Lo de Marcos, 20 minutes\u2019 away, to meet Antonio Aguirre, with his well-groomed moustache and huge sombrero, who took us horse riding (+521 322 121 4254, $10 an hour for beach/jungle rides) along lush tracks in comfy western saddles while extolling the virtues of Corona Light and armadillo skin \u201cscratchings\u201d.People scattered as we cantered back along the beach, the kids yee-hawing as their arms and legs flapped wildly, and we made a date with Antonio for the upcoming rodeo at his ranch. The bright lights and busy all-inclusive resorts of Puerto Vallarta might not have been far away, but this felt like another Mexico entirely.\u2022 Thomson (thomson.co.uk) flies to Puerto Vallarta from Gatwick and Manchester from \u00a3439 return. Sayulita is a 45-minute drive from the airport. The best time to visit the Pacific coast is between November and May, before the high temperatures and humidity of the rainy season1\u00bc hours from Puerto Vallarta airportHead to the cape south of Puerto Vallarta where miles of deserted beaches stretch along the coast, dotted with tiny harbours. Stay off the beaten track at Cabanas El Cielito (from around \u00a320pp a night, kids \u00a310) and while away the hours swaying in a beachside hammock. If you\u2019re feeling more adventurous, kayak up the nearby estuary, home to a vast array of birds and wildlife. Eat fish and oysters in the nearby village of Tehuamixtle and wash them down with the locally produced raicilla mezcal.1\u00bd hours from Puerto Vallarta airportEscape the heat of the Pacific coast by driving into the mountains to the tiny former gold and silver mining town. Galleried colonial buildings stretch the length of the pretty plaza and you can explore old mines dug into the hills or hike up to Cerro de la Bufa for magnificent views over lush valleys to the sea beyond. Step back in time and stay at the Mansion Real Hotel (doubles from \u00a340) and try El Fortin\u2019s locally grown coffee and creamy pistachio rompope liquor.Three hours from Puerto Vallarta airportExplore the shores of this spectacular lake, nestled inside a volcanic crater. Dive off wooden pontoons or rent a kayak to paddle out to the deep lake centre. Go back to basics at Koala Bungalows (doubles from \u00a326)with their lakeside views, or book a cabin at the Santa Maria Resort (doubles from \u00a3140). Lunch at the open-air restaurants on the lake shore, where the local speciality is chicharrones de pescado, deep-fried chunks of fish, and cold Pacifico beer. SH2\u00bd hours from Cancun airport to Chiquil\u00e1, then half-hour ferry ride Snorkel alongside whale sharks, the biggest fish in the world, in the clear waters northwest of Cancun, where the giant spotted creatures come to gorge on plankton between May and September. Whizz around the sandy sliver of an island by golf cart, spot wildlife in the Yum-Balam biosphere reserve, or just lounge on the beach and watch the sun set from Punta Coco. Stay on the beach at Casa las Tortugas (rooms from $141) and pull up a chair at Las Panchas for stingray empanadas and conch ceviche.4\u00bd hours from Cancun airportBag a flight to Cancun and then head west to the other side of the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula and this sleepy Gulf Coast town, where thousands of flamingos flock to its biosphere reserve and birdwatchers take boats through the lagoons and mangroves. Eat ceviche and coconut shrimp at one of the handful of laid-back restaurants on the white sand beach, and wake up to the sound of the sea at Casa de Celeste Vida (doubles from $95).", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Beach holidays", "Food and drink", "Surfing holidays", "Flights"], "title": "Sayulita, hippy-chic Mexico on the Pacific coast"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-12-19T05:40:45Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The bodies of two Australian surfers found in Mexico have reportedly been handed to Australia\u2019s consulate for repatriation. Related: Three arrested in Mexico over suspected killing of two Australian tourists The two burnt bodies were identified as those of Dean Lucas and Adam Coleman after authorities conducted DNA tests.Sinaloa officials this month arrested three men over the disappearance, but said two suspects remained at large.Lucas and Coleman, who were on a months-long surfing adventure, were due to reach the western city of Guadalajara on 21 November but did not arrive.News Corp Australia reported on Saturday that the bodies had been handed to Australian officials nearly a month after they were found in a burnt out van in Sinaloa state.It also reported that Mexican prosecutors had alleged that the van was pulled over by an SUV with flashing lights, and that police had recovered municipal and federal police uniforms from the suspects.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Mexico", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Western Australian surfers' bodies given to consulate in Mexico \u2013 report"},{"date": "2015-12-12T07:00:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the dozen Mexican cowboys knelt down in Sayulita\u2019s dusty rodeo arena, crossing themselves as they prayed, the 14-piece band cranked up its trumpet fanfare and an irate bull was dragged in front of the crowd and readied for action.The first challenger balanced precariously on the fence before leaping on the animal. The bull thrashed wildly, throwing him to the ground in seconds before the cowboy was dragged away as the band blasted on regardless.We winced, but the crowds \u2013 dressed to impress, the men in pristine cowboy hats and girls in skin-tight jeans and stiletto boots \u2013 whooped as they downed cans of Corona Light sold from old ice-filled buckets and waited for the next bout of man versus beast.The hippy-chic coastal town of Sayulita, on the west coast, which mixes Mexican country culture with Pacific surf, boutiques and cool bars, is off the radar of most British travellers. It was discovered by free-range surfers in the 1960s, but savvy travellers can now use a new charter flight with Thomson, from London Gatwick to Puerto Vallarta, just 45 minutes\u2019 drive away through lush jungle, far from the all-inclusive resorts.I was here with my partner and two children, aged five and seven. The day after the rodeo, we wandered down to Sayulita\u2019s magnificent swathe of beach where surfers and paddle-boarders drifted lazily in the early morning glow, waiting for the ideal wave to peel in, as a haze drifted over the sand and the palapa-thatched roofs of clifftop villas blended in with the palms.A bikini-clad girl casually teetered up her long board to \u201chang ten\u201d, while a squadron of pelicans swerved past and a handful of fishing boats putted out to sea. Its beach break has long made Sayulita a surf mecca, and surf schools stack their boards on the sand each morning as they open for business. It\u2019s also big for stand-up paddleboarding, and the world championships were held here in May.In the shady plaza, faded bunting fluttered as indigenous Huichol people in embroidered suits set out their beaded jewellery. A pick-up truck shattered the peace as it clattered along the cobbles, blaring its sales pitch for strawberries from a megaphone taped to the roof. There\u2019s plenty for shoppers in Sayulita: stylish Origenes (Calle Marlin 2) sells leather bags in vibrant tangerine, crimson and apple green, intricately hand-embroidered bedspreads and striped baskets woven by prison inmates, while Boho Wheels\u2019 bike-top shop pops up at night to sell handmade jewellery and purses.Revolucion del Sueno (55 Calle Manuel Navarrete) does a roaring trade in kitsch T-shirts featuring Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, alongside bright throws and bags. Nearby, Artefakto (Delfin #15) stocks unusual ceramics, art and textiles from around the country.On a mission to find Sayulita\u2019s best street food, we queued for chicken mole tacos at hole-in-the-wall Naty\u2019s Cocina (Calle Marlin 13) before enduring mind-bendingly spicy aguachile prawn tostadas at popular stall El Rinconcito (Avenida Revolucion and Rio Zarquito), perching on plastic stools while gringos swerved past on golf carts.To work off the pounds, we trekked through the jungle from Sayulita to sleepier San Pancho, a few miles north, scrambling over fallen trees and following a stream through dense foliage. Giant termite mounds and thick vines helped distract the kids\u2019 from their endless \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d. Apparently we weren\u2019t, and after an hour we were somehow back where we started so opted to drive the few miles the next day instead.San Pancho, with its hipster cafes, galleries and bohemian shops, operates at a lazier pace than Sayulita, and the bars on its quiet beach are perfect for trying micheladas (spicy bloody marys made with beer, tomato juice, lime, chilli and salt) while watching pelicans plummet into the surf.Some evenings the cowboys come to town, prancing their immaculate horses up the main road with cans of beer in hand and their girlfriends on the back, while a band belts out tunes and elderly couples dance in the plaza.We made it back to Sayulita in time for tequila cocktails blended with roasted jalapenos and ginger at Escondido (Calle Marlin 45A), before swaying on swings outside Atico hookah bar (Calle Mariscal, Unit 18) sipping smoky mezcal with chilli salt.Next, crisp calamari at Los Corazones (Calle Jose Mariscal 15A) and a nightcap at Petit Hotel Hafa\u2019s unselfconsciously cool Le Zouave bar (Avenida Revolucion 55), where the French owner was holding court. If you want to be close to the action, Petit Hotel Hafa (doubles from at $50) makes a great budget base \u2013 all scarlet-walled, boho chic with a Mexico-meets-Morocco theme, simple rooms and roof terrace.For seaside accommodation, Casablanca (two-bedroom suites for four with kitchen from $95) is a good family option, with a pool and near the Campamento Tortugero Sayulita turtle camp , where they protect eggs from poachers and where visitors can help release the tiny newborn olive ridley sea turtles when they hatch (from November-February).Elsewhere, the ocean views from the villas at Siete Lunas (doubles from $175) above nearby Playa de los Muertos are spectacular, although the vertiginous plunge from the horseshoe-shaped pool could prove hazardous for kids.The ocean around Sayulita is prime whale-watching territory during the winter months and it\u2019s easy to glimpse enormous humpbacks cruising down the coast on their annual migration as you sit on the beach.Hoping for a close up, we set off early one morning on the 17-metre Ally Cat yacht for a sailing trip to the rocky Marieta Islands, a Unesco biosphere reserve also known for its blue-footed boobies. As we headed across Banderas Bay, a mother and baby humpback arched alongside before a huge whale breached in front of the catamaran. The captain dropped a microphone overboard and the low groan of whale song reverberated.\u201cIt\u2019s a macho one, it sounds like Chewbacca,\u201d said one of the crew. At the uninhabited Marietas islands, we swam past preening blue-footed birds through a cave to a hidden beach, catching snippets of whale song as we snorkelled to the boat. Giddy on mai tais, we lounged at the bow watching dolphins loop past, feeling like extras in an 1980s pop video.Back on dry land, we spent a couple of days exploring the coast just south of Sayulita \u2013 careering along dirt tracks to wild Playa Carricitos, driving along a river bed to deserted Playa Patzcuaro and swimming at tranquil Los Muertos, where bonfire smoke drifted among the graves at the colourful cemetery nestled in the jungle \u2013 until we were finally beached out.Pestered by the kids for more cowboy action, we drove to the laidback Lo de Marcos, 20 minutes\u2019 away, to meet Antonio Aguirre, with his well-groomed moustache and huge sombrero, who took us horse riding (+521 322 121 4254, $10 an hour for beach/jungle rides) along lush tracks in comfy western saddles while extolling the virtues of Corona Light and armadillo skin \u201cscratchings\u201d.People scattered as we cantered back along the beach, the kids yee-hawing as their arms and legs flapped wildly, and we made a date with Antonio for the upcoming rodeo at his ranch. The bright lights and busy all-inclusive resorts of Puerto Vallarta might not have been far away, but this felt like another Mexico entirely.\u2022 Thomson (thomson.co.uk) flies to Puerto Vallarta from Gatwick and Manchester from \u00a3439 return. Sayulita is a 45-minute drive from the airport. The best time to visit the Pacific coast is between November and May, before the high temperatures and humidity of the rainy season1\u00bc hours from Puerto Vallarta airportHead to the cape south of Puerto Vallarta where miles of deserted beaches stretch along the coast, dotted with tiny harbours. Stay off the beaten track at Cabanas El Cielito (from around \u00a320pp a night, kids \u00a310) and while away the hours swaying in a beachside hammock. If you\u2019re feeling more adventurous, kayak up the nearby estuary, home to a vast array of birds and wildlife. Eat fish and oysters in the nearby village of Tehuamixtle and wash them down with the locally produced raicilla mezcal.1\u00bd hours from Puerto Vallarta airportEscape the heat of the Pacific coast by driving into the mountains to the tiny former gold and silver mining town. Galleried colonial buildings stretch the length of the pretty plaza and you can explore old mines dug into the hills or hike up to Cerro de la Bufa for magnificent views over lush valleys to the sea beyond. Step back in time and stay at the Mansion Real Hotel (doubles from \u00a340) and try El Fortin\u2019s locally grown coffee and creamy pistachio rompope liquor.Three hours from Puerto Vallarta airportExplore the shores of this spectacular lake, nestled inside a volcanic crater. Dive off wooden pontoons or rent a kayak to paddle out to the deep lake centre. Go back to basics at Koala Bungalows (doubles from \u00a326)with their lakeside views, or book a cabin at the Santa Maria Resort (doubles from \u00a3140). Lunch at the open-air restaurants on the lake shore, where the local speciality is chicharrones de pescado, deep-fried chunks of fish, and cold Pacifico beer. SH2\u00bd hours from Cancun airport to Chiquil\u00e1, then half-hour ferry ride Snorkel alongside whale sharks, the biggest fish in the world, in the clear waters northwest of Cancun, where the giant spotted creatures come to gorge on plankton between May and September. Whizz around the sandy sliver of an island by golf cart, spot wildlife in the Yum-Balam biosphere reserve, or just lounge on the beach and watch the sun set from Punta Coco. Stay on the beach at Casa las Tortugas (rooms from $141) and pull up a chair at Las Panchas for stingray empanadas and conch ceviche.4\u00bd hours from Cancun airportBag a flight to Cancun and then head west to the other side of the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula and this sleepy Gulf Coast town, where thousands of flamingos flock to its biosphere reserve and birdwatchers take boats through the lagoons and mangroves. Eat ceviche and coconut shrimp at one of the handful of laid-back restaurants on the white sand beach, and wake up to the sound of the sea at Casa de Celeste Vida (doubles from $95).", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Beach holidays", "Food and drink", "Surfing holidays", "Flights"], "title": "Sayulita, hippy-chic Mexico on the Pacific coast"},{"date": "2015-12-15T16:27:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Printer and software giant Lexmark has fired dozens of workers from its factory in the Mexican city of Ciudad J\u00faarez after they demanded a pay rise of $0.35 per day.Hundreds of workers at the printer cartridge plant went on strike last week, calling for the company to increase its daily rate for experienced employees from 114 to 120 pesos \u2013 a raise of approximately $0.35.Days later, Lexmark fired around 120 of the striking workers. Most of those dismissed had been involved in attempts to set up an independent union to advocate pay increases and improvements in working conditions. The mass layoff has left families in dire straits in the run-up to the holidays. Low-paid workers in Mexico often rely on the traditional end of year benefit \u2013 known as the Aguinaldo \u2013 to settle debts and pay for Christmas.Ciudad J\u00faarez is the hub of Mexico\u2019s manufacturing sector, with around 300,000 factory workers but no independent unions. The city \u2013 located over the border from El Paso, Texas \u2013 was until recently the most dangerous in the world as warring drug cartels battled over territory.But despite ongoing security concerns, American companies are drawn to the city by tax benefits offered through the North American Free Trade Agreement, low transport costs due to its proximity to the border and low wages. Mexico\u2019s minimum daily wage is 70 pesos \u2013 around $4. The bilateral trade relationship between Mexico and the US is worth over half a trillion dollars a year. This year has seen a wave of protests by factory workers in Ciudad J\u00faarez amid growing anger low pay, harsh conditions and weak labour rights which campaigners say haven\u2019t improved in decades. Lexmark, a world leader in laser printers, is worth $2.01bn. In 2014, its revenue totalled $3.7bn, though it has fallen this year. It employs 14,000 people worldwide. Related: When I lost my hands making flatscreens I can't afford, nobody would help me | Rosa Moreno Discontent among its workers had been brewing for months, with reports of harassment, unfair wage deductions and unsafe work conditions as well as poor wages. Miriam Delgado, 37, who was fired last week after five years and seven months at Lexmark, told the Guardian: \u201cThey didn\u2019t provide face masks or gloves to protect us, many people have injured hands. They cut our salaries for being even slightly late, even if our children were sick and we had to take them to hospital, and we had to put up with harassment from supervisors.\u201d In October, the disgruntlement intensified after the company rejected a request to increase the top salary band to 120 pesos a day. In response, a group of 78 workers, including Delgado, submitted a formal request to start a union before the state government\u2019s Board of Conciliation and Arbitration in hope of negotiating improvements. The 78 were among the group fired last week after participating in a strike with around 700 colleagues. Susana Prieto Terrazas, the lawyer representing the workers, told news website Sin Embargo that the layoffs suggested collusion between the company and the state government, as only the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration had the list of names.Government officials have publicly accused the labour organisers of self-interest, and said striking was not the right way to improve conditions.An unfair dismissal complaint will be lodged before the Board this week, said Prieto Terrazas. In a statement Jerry Grasso, company spokesman, told the Guardian: \u201cWe take our values of mutual respect and employee satisfaction very seriously. We are committed to engaging in open and honest conversations with our employees to ensure Lexmark continues to be a rewarding place to work.\u201dDelgado, who has worked in factories since moving to Ciudad Juarez 30 years ago, told the Guardian: \u201cThey fired those of us who were trying to organise and fight. Nothing has changed in Juarez, we are still forced to put up with unjust and undignified working conditions. I don\u2019t know what I will do, but I can\u2019t work in the factories anymore.\u201d Lexmark\u2019s disputes with labor have landed the firm in legal trouble domestically as well: in 2010 an LA county superior court judge found that the company\u2019s longstanding \u201cuse it or lose it\u201d vacation policy (which disallowed employees from rolling vacation days into the new year) was in fact illegal; a year later an appeals court ruled against the company again, though it reduced the multimillion-dollar payout on appeal.The policy, which was ruled wage theft, had been in place since Lexmark spun off from IBM in 1991.Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Lexmark spun off from Microsoft, instead of IBM. ", "tags": ["Business", "Mexico", "Technology", "World news", "Software", "Computing", "Americas"], "title": "Printer giant Lexmark fires Mexico factory workers demanding $0.35 raise"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-12-19T05:40:45Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The bodies of two Australian surfers found in Mexico have reportedly been handed to Australia\u2019s consulate for repatriation. Related: Three arrested in Mexico over suspected killing of two Australian tourists The two burnt bodies were identified as those of Dean Lucas and Adam Coleman after authorities conducted DNA tests.Sinaloa officials this month arrested three men over the disappearance, but said two suspects remained at large.Lucas and Coleman, who were on a months-long surfing adventure, were due to reach the western city of Guadalajara on 21 November but did not arrive.News Corp Australia reported on Saturday that the bodies had been handed to Australian officials nearly a month after they were found in a burnt out van in Sinaloa state.It also reported that Mexican prosecutors had alleged that the van was pulled over by an SUV with flashing lights, and that police had recovered municipal and federal police uniforms from the suspects.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Mexico", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Western Australian surfers' bodies given to consulate in Mexico \u2013 report"},{"date": "2015-12-12T07:00:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the dozen Mexican cowboys knelt down in Sayulita\u2019s dusty rodeo arena, crossing themselves as they prayed, the 14-piece band cranked up its trumpet fanfare and an irate bull was dragged in front of the crowd and readied for action.The first challenger balanced precariously on the fence before leaping on the animal. The bull thrashed wildly, throwing him to the ground in seconds before the cowboy was dragged away as the band blasted on regardless.We winced, but the crowds \u2013 dressed to impress, the men in pristine cowboy hats and girls in skin-tight jeans and stiletto boots \u2013 whooped as they downed cans of Corona Light sold from old ice-filled buckets and waited for the next bout of man versus beast.The hippy-chic coastal town of Sayulita, on the west coast, which mixes Mexican country culture with Pacific surf, boutiques and cool bars, is off the radar of most British travellers. It was discovered by free-range surfers in the 1960s, but savvy travellers can now use a new charter flight with Thomson, from London Gatwick to Puerto Vallarta, just 45 minutes\u2019 drive away through lush jungle, far from the all-inclusive resorts.I was here with my partner and two children, aged five and seven. The day after the rodeo, we wandered down to Sayulita\u2019s magnificent swathe of beach where surfers and paddle-boarders drifted lazily in the early morning glow, waiting for the ideal wave to peel in, as a haze drifted over the sand and the palapa-thatched roofs of clifftop villas blended in with the palms.A bikini-clad girl casually teetered up her long board to \u201chang ten\u201d, while a squadron of pelicans swerved past and a handful of fishing boats putted out to sea. Its beach break has long made Sayulita a surf mecca, and surf schools stack their boards on the sand each morning as they open for business. It\u2019s also big for stand-up paddleboarding, and the world championships were held here in May.In the shady plaza, faded bunting fluttered as indigenous Huichol people in embroidered suits set out their beaded jewellery. A pick-up truck shattered the peace as it clattered along the cobbles, blaring its sales pitch for strawberries from a megaphone taped to the roof. There\u2019s plenty for shoppers in Sayulita: stylish Origenes (Calle Marlin 2) sells leather bags in vibrant tangerine, crimson and apple green, intricately hand-embroidered bedspreads and striped baskets woven by prison inmates, while Boho Wheels\u2019 bike-top shop pops up at night to sell handmade jewellery and purses.Revolucion del Sueno (55 Calle Manuel Navarrete) does a roaring trade in kitsch T-shirts featuring Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, alongside bright throws and bags. Nearby, Artefakto (Delfin #15) stocks unusual ceramics, art and textiles from around the country.On a mission to find Sayulita\u2019s best street food, we queued for chicken mole tacos at hole-in-the-wall Naty\u2019s Cocina (Calle Marlin 13) before enduring mind-bendingly spicy aguachile prawn tostadas at popular stall El Rinconcito (Avenida Revolucion and Rio Zarquito), perching on plastic stools while gringos swerved past on golf carts.To work off the pounds, we trekked through the jungle from Sayulita to sleepier San Pancho, a few miles north, scrambling over fallen trees and following a stream through dense foliage. Giant termite mounds and thick vines helped distract the kids\u2019 from their endless \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d. Apparently we weren\u2019t, and after an hour we were somehow back where we started so opted to drive the few miles the next day instead.San Pancho, with its hipster cafes, galleries and bohemian shops, operates at a lazier pace than Sayulita, and the bars on its quiet beach are perfect for trying micheladas (spicy bloody marys made with beer, tomato juice, lime, chilli and salt) while watching pelicans plummet into the surf.Some evenings the cowboys come to town, prancing their immaculate horses up the main road with cans of beer in hand and their girlfriends on the back, while a band belts out tunes and elderly couples dance in the plaza.We made it back to Sayulita in time for tequila cocktails blended with roasted jalapenos and ginger at Escondido (Calle Marlin 45A), before swaying on swings outside Atico hookah bar (Calle Mariscal, Unit 18) sipping smoky mezcal with chilli salt.Next, crisp calamari at Los Corazones (Calle Jose Mariscal 15A) and a nightcap at Petit Hotel Hafa\u2019s unselfconsciously cool Le Zouave bar (Avenida Revolucion 55), where the French owner was holding court. If you want to be close to the action, Petit Hotel Hafa (doubles from at $50) makes a great budget base \u2013 all scarlet-walled, boho chic with a Mexico-meets-Morocco theme, simple rooms and roof terrace.For seaside accommodation, Casablanca (two-bedroom suites for four with kitchen from $95) is a good family option, with a pool and near the Campamento Tortugero Sayulita turtle camp , where they protect eggs from poachers and where visitors can help release the tiny newborn olive ridley sea turtles when they hatch (from November-February).Elsewhere, the ocean views from the villas at Siete Lunas (doubles from $175) above nearby Playa de los Muertos are spectacular, although the vertiginous plunge from the horseshoe-shaped pool could prove hazardous for kids.The ocean around Sayulita is prime whale-watching territory during the winter months and it\u2019s easy to glimpse enormous humpbacks cruising down the coast on their annual migration as you sit on the beach.Hoping for a close up, we set off early one morning on the 17-metre Ally Cat yacht for a sailing trip to the rocky Marieta Islands, a Unesco biosphere reserve also known for its blue-footed boobies. As we headed across Banderas Bay, a mother and baby humpback arched alongside before a huge whale breached in front of the catamaran. The captain dropped a microphone overboard and the low groan of whale song reverberated.\u201cIt\u2019s a macho one, it sounds like Chewbacca,\u201d said one of the crew. At the uninhabited Marietas islands, we swam past preening blue-footed birds through a cave to a hidden beach, catching snippets of whale song as we snorkelled to the boat. Giddy on mai tais, we lounged at the bow watching dolphins loop past, feeling like extras in an 1980s pop video.Back on dry land, we spent a couple of days exploring the coast just south of Sayulita \u2013 careering along dirt tracks to wild Playa Carricitos, driving along a river bed to deserted Playa Patzcuaro and swimming at tranquil Los Muertos, where bonfire smoke drifted among the graves at the colourful cemetery nestled in the jungle \u2013 until we were finally beached out.Pestered by the kids for more cowboy action, we drove to the laidback Lo de Marcos, 20 minutes\u2019 away, to meet Antonio Aguirre, with his well-groomed moustache and huge sombrero, who took us horse riding (+521 322 121 4254, $10 an hour for beach/jungle rides) along lush tracks in comfy western saddles while extolling the virtues of Corona Light and armadillo skin \u201cscratchings\u201d.People scattered as we cantered back along the beach, the kids yee-hawing as their arms and legs flapped wildly, and we made a date with Antonio for the upcoming rodeo at his ranch. The bright lights and busy all-inclusive resorts of Puerto Vallarta might not have been far away, but this felt like another Mexico entirely.\u2022 Thomson (thomson.co.uk) flies to Puerto Vallarta from Gatwick and Manchester from \u00a3439 return. Sayulita is a 45-minute drive from the airport. The best time to visit the Pacific coast is between November and May, before the high temperatures and humidity of the rainy season1\u00bc hours from Puerto Vallarta airportHead to the cape south of Puerto Vallarta where miles of deserted beaches stretch along the coast, dotted with tiny harbours. Stay off the beaten track at Cabanas El Cielito (from around \u00a320pp a night, kids \u00a310) and while away the hours swaying in a beachside hammock. If you\u2019re feeling more adventurous, kayak up the nearby estuary, home to a vast array of birds and wildlife. Eat fish and oysters in the nearby village of Tehuamixtle and wash them down with the locally produced raicilla mezcal.1\u00bd hours from Puerto Vallarta airportEscape the heat of the Pacific coast by driving into the mountains to the tiny former gold and silver mining town. Galleried colonial buildings stretch the length of the pretty plaza and you can explore old mines dug into the hills or hike up to Cerro de la Bufa for magnificent views over lush valleys to the sea beyond. Step back in time and stay at the Mansion Real Hotel (doubles from \u00a340) and try El Fortin\u2019s locally grown coffee and creamy pistachio rompope liquor.Three hours from Puerto Vallarta airportExplore the shores of this spectacular lake, nestled inside a volcanic crater. Dive off wooden pontoons or rent a kayak to paddle out to the deep lake centre. Go back to basics at Koala Bungalows (doubles from \u00a326)with their lakeside views, or book a cabin at the Santa Maria Resort (doubles from \u00a3140). Lunch at the open-air restaurants on the lake shore, where the local speciality is chicharrones de pescado, deep-fried chunks of fish, and cold Pacifico beer. SH2\u00bd hours from Cancun airport to Chiquil\u00e1, then half-hour ferry ride Snorkel alongside whale sharks, the biggest fish in the world, in the clear waters northwest of Cancun, where the giant spotted creatures come to gorge on plankton between May and September. Whizz around the sandy sliver of an island by golf cart, spot wildlife in the Yum-Balam biosphere reserve, or just lounge on the beach and watch the sun set from Punta Coco. Stay on the beach at Casa las Tortugas (rooms from $141) and pull up a chair at Las Panchas for stingray empanadas and conch ceviche.4\u00bd hours from Cancun airportBag a flight to Cancun and then head west to the other side of the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula and this sleepy Gulf Coast town, where thousands of flamingos flock to its biosphere reserve and birdwatchers take boats through the lagoons and mangroves. Eat ceviche and coconut shrimp at one of the handful of laid-back restaurants on the white sand beach, and wake up to the sound of the sea at Casa de Celeste Vida (doubles from $95).", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Beach holidays", "Food and drink", "Surfing holidays", "Flights"], "title": "Sayulita, hippy-chic Mexico on the Pacific coast"},{"date": "2015-12-15T16:27:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Printer and software giant Lexmark has fired dozens of workers from its factory in the Mexican city of Ciudad J\u00faarez after they demanded a pay rise of $0.35 per day.Hundreds of workers at the printer cartridge plant went on strike last week, calling for the company to increase its daily rate for experienced employees from 114 to 120 pesos \u2013 a raise of approximately $0.35.Days later, Lexmark fired around 120 of the striking workers. Most of those dismissed had been involved in attempts to set up an independent union to advocate pay increases and improvements in working conditions. The mass layoff has left families in dire straits in the run-up to the holidays. Low-paid workers in Mexico often rely on the traditional end of year benefit \u2013 known as the Aguinaldo \u2013 to settle debts and pay for Christmas.Ciudad J\u00faarez is the hub of Mexico\u2019s manufacturing sector, with around 300,000 factory workers but no independent unions. The city \u2013 located over the border from El Paso, Texas \u2013 was until recently the most dangerous in the world as warring drug cartels battled over territory.But despite ongoing security concerns, American companies are drawn to the city by tax benefits offered through the North American Free Trade Agreement, low transport costs due to its proximity to the border and low wages. Mexico\u2019s minimum daily wage is 70 pesos \u2013 around $4. The bilateral trade relationship between Mexico and the US is worth over half a trillion dollars a year. This year has seen a wave of protests by factory workers in Ciudad J\u00faarez amid growing anger low pay, harsh conditions and weak labour rights which campaigners say haven\u2019t improved in decades. Lexmark, a world leader in laser printers, is worth $2.01bn. In 2014, its revenue totalled $3.7bn, though it has fallen this year. It employs 14,000 people worldwide. Related: When I lost my hands making flatscreens I can't afford, nobody would help me | Rosa Moreno Discontent among its workers had been brewing for months, with reports of harassment, unfair wage deductions and unsafe work conditions as well as poor wages. Miriam Delgado, 37, who was fired last week after five years and seven months at Lexmark, told the Guardian: \u201cThey didn\u2019t provide face masks or gloves to protect us, many people have injured hands. They cut our salaries for being even slightly late, even if our children were sick and we had to take them to hospital, and we had to put up with harassment from supervisors.\u201d In October, the disgruntlement intensified after the company rejected a request to increase the top salary band to 120 pesos a day. In response, a group of 78 workers, including Delgado, submitted a formal request to start a union before the state government\u2019s Board of Conciliation and Arbitration in hope of negotiating improvements. The 78 were among the group fired last week after participating in a strike with around 700 colleagues. Susana Prieto Terrazas, the lawyer representing the workers, told news website Sin Embargo that the layoffs suggested collusion between the company and the state government, as only the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration had the list of names.Government officials have publicly accused the labour organisers of self-interest, and said striking was not the right way to improve conditions.An unfair dismissal complaint will be lodged before the Board this week, said Prieto Terrazas. In a statement Jerry Grasso, company spokesman, told the Guardian: \u201cWe take our values of mutual respect and employee satisfaction very seriously. We are committed to engaging in open and honest conversations with our employees to ensure Lexmark continues to be a rewarding place to work.\u201dDelgado, who has worked in factories since moving to Ciudad Juarez 30 years ago, told the Guardian: \u201cThey fired those of us who were trying to organise and fight. Nothing has changed in Juarez, we are still forced to put up with unjust and undignified working conditions. I don\u2019t know what I will do, but I can\u2019t work in the factories anymore.\u201d Lexmark\u2019s disputes with labor have landed the firm in legal trouble domestically as well: in 2010 an LA county superior court judge found that the company\u2019s longstanding \u201cuse it or lose it\u201d vacation policy (which disallowed employees from rolling vacation days into the new year) was in fact illegal; a year later an appeals court ruled against the company again, though it reduced the multimillion-dollar payout on appeal.The policy, which was ruled wage theft, had been in place since Lexmark spun off from IBM in 1991.Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Lexmark spun off from Microsoft, instead of IBM. ", "tags": ["Business", "Mexico", "Technology", "World news", "Software", "Computing", "Americas"], "title": "Printer giant Lexmark fires Mexico factory workers demanding $0.35 raise"},{"date": "2015-12-03T00:55:26Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Coca-Cola Mexico spokesman apologised and said the company had pulled an online ad after it was deemed offensive to the country\u2019s indigenous people by consumers, media and advocacy groups. Related: Coca-Cola under fire over ad showing Coke handout to indigenous people Coke director of publicity Diego Bracamontes said the ad was taken down late on Tuesday after about a week online in Mexico and that the company had never meant to offend anyone.The \u201cOpen Your Heart\u201d holiday campaign came under fire with its portrayal of light-skinned white people driving into the remote hills of Oaxaca to hand out Coke to indigenous Mixe people and put up a Coke-themed Christmas tree.Campaigners from the country\u2019s Alliance for Food Health said it was insulting to indigenous people who are some of the most affected by Mexico\u2019s epidemic rate of obesity, which is fuelled partly by high consumption of sugary soda drinks. Bracamontes told the Associated Press on Wednesday that the message had been misinterpreted and the campaign was intended to be about unity and happiness across communities.With Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "Coca-Cola", "Indigenous peoples", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Coca-Cola drops controversial Christmas video set in indigenous Mexico"},{"date": "2015-11-10T00:46:24Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "\n\n12.15am GMT\n00:15\n\nWe\u2019ve covered many a mile, set a new record for markets visited in one day, flown in a hot air balloon, located a large, tame pig, and had a fascinating and fruitful discussion about the future of the city for women. Phew \u2026Sincere thanks to all our intrepid live bloggers, to Gustavo and Lisa at M\u00e1sPorM\u00e1s for their hospitality, to Sean and all the team at Flying Pictures (including pilot Odin Aragon, a national champion no less), and to Elena at Rosetta for introducing us to some heavenly new culinary experiences.And we\u2019ve got loads more to come through the rest of our special live week in Mexico City. Tomorrow we\u2019ll be in Iztapalapa at the Deportivo Chavos Banda \u2013 look out for a really fascinating story on this pioneering community centre; on Wednesday we hope to interview the mayor of the city; and on Thursday our Latin-America correspondent, Jonathan Watts, will be on the tortuous trail of Mexico City\u2019s water supply, as it is pumped up nearly 2km and along almost 150km to reach (some of) the city.We won\u2019t be live-blogging, but you can follow us throughout the week on Twitter #GuardianMexico, on Instagram, and on the Guardian Cities website. Hasta ma\u00f1ana. MH Updated\nat 3.29am GMT\n\n\n12.06am GMT\n00:06\n\nProof at last: Guardian Cities has come face to face with the mythical Roma Pig.I have now met the world-famous pig of Mexico City. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/MohNJVK6BIThe first thing you have to know about La Chata, Mexico City\u2019s (now) most famous pig, is that she\u2019s out here for herself, not for you. Or, as her owner Angel Arredondo explained: \u201cShe\u2019s a bit of a diva.\u201dNo wonder: she\u2019s got people taking her picture where ever she goes, asking for selfies, even stopping cars and motorcycles abruptly to gawk at her magnificence. Miss Piggy would be justifiably jealous.Arredondo has had her a year and a half, ever since his girlfriend brought her home as a birthday gift. He thought it was a crazy idea but, within a few days, he was in love ... and so were all his neighbours.Walks are some of La Chata\u2019s favourite things, both because of the attention of strangers and to greet her friends, from the guys at the taco shop to the newsstand lady who sneaks her chips.She even has her own official artist, Ruben Ochoa, best known for (appropriately enough) Bestiary, a take on the seven deadly sins. Ochoa risks life and limb for that perfect photograph of La Chata crossing the road, getting a bath or scaring the neighborhood dogs, who aren\u2019t quite sure what those squeals and grunts mean.To follow La Chata\u2019s urban adventures (and you should), check her out on Instagram or Twitter: @LaChataPigMCUpdated\nat 12.46am GMT\n\n\n11.57pm GMT\n23:57\n\nMartin\u2019s incredible expedition around Mexico City\u2019s markets concludes in Tepito, at the Altar de Santa Muerte.Altar de Santa Muerte, Tipito. \"There's no good or bad, just faith\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/XM2PJsDwGoWe\u2019ve just been talking to the indomitable Do\u00f1a Queta, who set up the DF\u2019s biggest shrine to Santa Muerte in 2001. It\u2019s in Tepito, a neighbourhood best known as Mexico City\u2019s most dangerous.The shrine itself is pretty modest : behind polished glass stands a skeleton dressed in white satin \u2013 La Flaca (the skinny lady). Every first of the month, thousands crowd into the street outside Do\u00f1a Queta\u2019s house to pay their respects.\u201cThe church doesn\u2019t like us, but we live in a free country and we can do whatever we like,\u201d she said. \u201cDios es el mas chignon.\u201d Loosely translated: God is the baddest motherfucker.\"A civilization which denies death ends up denying life\" - Octavio Paz, the Labyrinth of Solitude #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/7dosb7J8zdUpdated\nat 4.00pm GMT\n\n\n11.24pm GMT\n23:24\n\nOn the border between La Condesa and Roma lies Parque M\u00e9xico. It\u2019s a little green oasis with smooth brick sidewalks, well-maintained gardens ... and lots and lots of dogs, on and off leash, at almost any time of day. Dog walker in La Condesa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/JnVSC6oHlUMexico City\u2019s inhabitants love their dogs: the rise in income and education, along with people\u2019s choices to put off parenthood and have fewer children, have led to a boom in pet ownership. The city is home to as many as 3 million pet dogs; New York City, by comparison, has around 600,000.But all hasn\u2019t been well of late: a serial dog-killer was stalking the bushes of Parque M\u00e9xico in October, and poisoned 19 dogs in just four days. Police eventually arrested a 75-year-old resident, reportedly angry about off-leash dogs and unscooped poop, who was said to have spread tainted food in the underbrush. (The suspect has reportedly since been released.) MC\n\n11.05pm GMT\n23:05\n\nMartin Hodgson is outside the federal prosecutors\u2019 office.Protesters have been camped out here since December, demanding the safe return of 43 teacher-training students who disappeared just over a year ago, after they were with local police in the town of Iguala. The case has become emblematic of state violence and impunity \u2013 and the vast number of people who disappear every year in Mexico.Protestors camp outside federal prosecutors' demanding return of 43 missing students #Ayotzinapa #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/vwttkne8f0\u201cWe can\u2019t let this continue in the 21st century. It\u2019s the worst barbarity. But most people are indifferent because they\u2019re too focused on their daily lives,\u201d said one protester, Victor.Twenty-eight thousand people have officially disappeared since 2006, but the real figure is thought to be much higher: mass graves are discovered with depressing regularity. Activists in Mexico City calculate that around 1,000 women disappear in the capital every year.Updated\nat 11.17pm GMT\n\n\n10.25pm GMT\n22:25\n\nToday\u2019s discussion at the Frida Kahlo Museum culminated in our all-female panel (of all ages and backgrounds) drawing up a set of recommendations for the city\u2019s authorities. Here are three key points from their \u201cmanifesto for the city\u201d:(1) Insecurity and violence against women continues to be the number one priority for women living in the city. This panel seeks urgent action to tackle society\u2019s tolerance of the harassment of women \u2013 in public and private spaces, including among those working within an official capacity \u2013 and to challenge women\u2019s representation as lesser, sexual objects in the mainstream media. (2) The absence of gender equality within the school curriculum is a huge concern. There is an urgent need for programmes (within both public and private schools) that teach all children about equality, rights, sexual choice, sexual health, diversity and respect. It must be a priority that women defending the rights of other women can carry out their work safely and securely. Any threats or violence against female human rights defenders \u2013 for example, the massacre in Navarte \u2013 must be a priority for the city\u2019s authorities. It must be dealt with transparently within the criminal justice system and not be played out in the media.(3) The vast majority of women in the city rely on public transport, where many feel vulnerable and unsafe. Women-only carriages will only be effective if they are properly controlled \u2013 and even then, they are only part of a solution. There must be long-term, effective public campaigns to eradicate sexual harassment, which must include messages about equality and respect from school-age onwards. A more detailed report on the discussion, and a full set of the recommendations arrived at, will be published later this week. MH\n\n9.52pm GMT\n21:52\n\nIt\u2019s a heady time for Mexican film-makers abroad. The country has bred the past two Academy Award winners for best director: Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n for Gravity and Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu for Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). And Emmanuel \u201cChivo\u201d Lubezki rode both those films to two consecutive Oscars for best cinematographer.Cuar\u00f3n and Lubezki have another thing in common: they both went to the prestigious CUEC film school of Mexico City.So we knew that challenging CUEC\u2019s first-year class to make a series of three-minute films about Mexico City would generate something interesting.On Friday, they screened the results for us. Here\u2019s one.I say again: first-year students. It\u2019s enough to make you hopeful that the days of judging Mexican directors by their Oscar haul are numbered. Though the students also had an axe to grind about how difficult it is to distribute independent Mexican films, even in Mexico. \u201cSo far from God, so close to the United States.\u201dMore to come.CMUpdated\nat 10.13pm GMT\n\n\n9.22pm GMT\n21:22\n\nMartin has spent some time with the migrants at La Merced market.Mexico City\u2019s been a magnet for migrants since the Revolution, and people are still coming from the countryside, to flee violence or find work.For no particular reason, these butchers at La Merced market broke into a chorus of \"\u00a1Viva M\u00e9xico!\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/fQLy24m7Z3...which quickly became a chant of \"\u00a1 Que viva Oaxaca!\" in honour of their home town #GuardianMexico\u201cIn the countryside there are no jobs, so we had to move,\u201d said Ricardo, who was selling calla lillies. \u201cI don\u2019t like Mexico City, but I had no choice.\u201dValeria selling jelly in La Merced market: \"Mexico City is pretty but I worry about insecurity here\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Gjc5a04e4JAnother woman, Elena, said she and her family had moved to the DF from Guerrero when their father was killed 40 years ago.Lu\u00eds + tripe: \"The best thing about Mexico City? You can find anything. The worst? Too many people\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/YZ6TwjIMcBBut what\u2019s striking is how migrants hold on to their identity: even though Elena has never been back to her home state, she still called herself a Guerrerense.Rosa, who was selling potatoes and tomatoes in a corner of the Merced market, is a member of the Mazahua indigenous group. She moved to the city from Michoac\u00e1n when she was five years old; she\u2019s 55 now, but doesn\u2019t consider herself a chilango and still speaks Mazahua at home. \u201cYou don\u2019t give up who you are just because you move.\u201dGabby and Anna-Maria selling nopal cactus in La Merced market. #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/Yi5jCtr1htGabby (above) and Alejandro moved from Oaxaca six years ago in search of work, but now that their daughter, Anna Maria (pictured) is starting to grow, they\u2019re thinking of heading back. \u201cWhen we were younger there was no work in Oaxaca, but things are starting to change now, so we\u2019d like to go back home. The food is much better there...\u201dUpdated\nat 9.23pm GMT\n\n\n9.00pm GMT\n21:00\n\nAs mentioned, Guardian Cities was in a need of a temporary home to bring you this live week of content, and we are very grateful to Mexico City\u2019s leading free newspaper, m\u00e1sporm\u00e1s, for welcoming us into their (literally) brand new office building today.While here we\u2019ve come across a really interesting new project of theirs called Pictoline. It\u2019s a constant stream of smart data visualisations tackling a wide range of news and lifestyle stories from around the world. Here\u2019s a recent one we like (also good for practising your Spanish) \u2026Estas son las palabras (y conceptos) m\u00e1s populares del 2015 pic.twitter.com/iN4zfYugaC\u2026 and a brief video explaining more about Pictoline:MH\n\n8.53pm GMT\n20:53\n\nMeanwhile, back at Rosetta in Colonia, we\u2019ve been tasting some really exquisite, locally sourced examples of Mexican cooking, courtesy of Elena Reygadas and her talented team. Here are some photos to make your collective mouths water ...This indescribably delicious dish is a persimmon salad, mixed with reques\u00f3n cheese (a type of ricotta), all manner of herbs (sorrel, shiso, mint, tarragon), plus pistachios for added crunch. Personally, I don\u2019t ever remember trying a persimmon before, and now I have, I don\u2019t think I\u2019m ever going to look at a tomato the same way again.And this is an octopus rushed here fresh from Campeche, a state on the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, then accompanied by chickpeas, coriander and purslane.There is desert too, but I honestly think it would be cruel to show you a photo of it \u2013 so I\u2019ll just tell you the ingredients and let you imagine for yourself:Red mole sauce with chocolate in a peanut ice cream, dressed with caramelised peanuts with salt, toasted corn and \u2013 who\u2019d have thought it? \u2013 lemon thyme. Heaven. MH\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nIt\u2019s not always easy switching between different locations and subjects across Mexico City today. We want to capture all the excitement of being in the city, but we\u2019re also feeling pretty serious about some of the tough conversations that have been had by our guests at the Frida Kahlo Museum today.Some of Mexico City's most influential women @museofridakahlo discussing challenges for women in DF #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/xWZNJXLqMTWe will certainly follow up on some of the important points that have been made \u2013 for example, we\u2019ll talk at length to Marcelina Bautista and other (anonymous) domestic workers this week about their often gruelling experiences of life in Mexico City. Marcelina herself moved here aged 14 to work as a live-in housekeeper, and worked as a domestic for 22 years \u2013 often in very difficult circumstances.Then in 2000, she set up the Centre for Support and Training of Domestic Workers (Caceh) \u2013 an employment rights association which recently converted into a fully-fledged union, becoming the first national union in Mexico to be run by domestic workers themselves. It\u2019s been an honour to have her and the rest of this eminent group of Mexico City women sharing their experiences with us today. MH\n\n7.34pm GMT\n19:34\n\nBack at the Casa Azul, the discussion on women and Mexico City is exploring inequality, violence and security \u2026\u201cThe city is a microcosm of the best and the worst of Mexico. Security and inequality are huge challenges for women here\u201d \u2013 @DeniseDresserG\"Last year 178 women were assassinated in Mexico City. Just 31 cases were investigated as feminicide\": Luz Estrada of @OCNF #GuardianMexicoLuz Estrada on feminicide in Mexico: \"we still don\u2019t have clarity on what\u2019s making women disappear. They are invisible\" #GuardianMexicoMarcelina Bautista (from Un Trabajo Digno) talked about the situation of domestic workers in the city and the discrimination and violence they suffer from their employers, including the negation of their identity (forcing them to change their names) and physical abuse. The law doesn\u2019t stipulate a minimum salary for domestic workers. 2.3 million people work as domestic workers in Mexico \u2013 in Mexico City there are 250,000, the majority of them women.\n\n7.26pm GMT\n19:26\n\nMartin\u2019s latest market visit is the freakiest yet.Mercado de Sonora, for all your spiritual-magical-syncretic needs #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/LOegWdl0vLThe Sonora Market specialises in medicinal plants and herbs ... and the paraphernalia of the paranormal. Stalls here sell everything from statues of Catholic saints to beads for Cuban Santer\u00eda, from Copal incense to \u201cBreak-up-couples shampoo\u201d and \u201cPants-off lotion\u201d. Javier sells Santer\u00eda artefacts: \"I'm not a Santero, but everyone's got to believe in something\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/yZFZN4chSwDo\u00f1a Aurora: \"Mexico City is getting better. When I started here the roof was made of cardboard\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/GDNVE5UR9WThere are plenty of folks saints are on display, too \u2013 figures of power in popular religion, but not recognised (and sometimes actively repressed) by the Catholic church. Some are from as far away as Venezula, such as Jose Gregorio and the Three Powers of the Mar\u00eda Lionza faith. But several are specifically Mexican: Jesus Malverde, known as the \u201cangel of the poor\u201d or the \u201cnarcosaint\u201d, and Santa Muerte, or Holy Death. Do\u00f1a Flor: \"all the saints are powerful, but Santa Muerte is the strongest. Don't make her angry.\" #GuardianMexico pic.twitter.com/tyzv8rFYoIAlso known as the Skinny Lady or the Bony Lady, Santa Muerte emerged some time in the 20th century, but in the past 15 years has become enormously popular among Mexico\u2019s poor and downtrodden. She is considered to be particularly powerful, but also vengeful. \u201cSometimes people promise to make an offering and she helps them,\u201d says Do\u00f1a Flor. \u201cBut if they don\u2019t keep their word, then everything they asked for will turn out wrong.\u201dSee more images of Sante Muerte here.  Related: Inside Santa Muerte, Mexico's cult of death - in pictures \n\n7.14pm GMT\n19:14\n\nPigwatch: Hour 4Reports are surfacing from people who claim they knew the pig before he was cool.I once met the pig (before he got famous) at a party in la Roma. He's called Harrison and his best mate's a husky. Nice guy. #GuardianMexicoThanks Peter ... but can we really trust this information? Given that the crack investigative team at M\u00e1sporm\u00e1s \u2013 whose headquarters Guardian Cities are working from this week \u2013 reports that the pig\u2019s name is, in fact, El Chata?@guardiancities Everything is explained here: https://t.co/VRRosnbejz She's a Vietnamese pig and her name is 'Chata'. #GuardianMexicoStay tuned for an exclusive interview with the pig at 5pm CST. All will be revealed.CM", "tags": ["Cities", "Mexico", "World news", "Americas", "Mexico City holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Guardian Mexico City week \u2013 live"},{"date": "2015-12-10T12:00:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Hidden away at the far end of Puerto Escondido\u2019s five-mile beach, Punta Zicatela is a cross between surfer paradise and hippy hideaway. By far the best place to swim in town, La Punta is centred on a street of cafes, surf shops, hostels and restaurants. Caba\u00f1as Buena Onda (bed in dorms from about \u00a34) is a simple hostel on the beach offering individual huts, dormitories and tents. The palm trees provide much-needed shade, a place to sling a hammock, and give the place an authentic, jungle feel. There is a simple kitchen and basic washing facilities \u2013 don\u2019t go there if you want the full spa treatment \u2013 but there are few better places in Mexico to watch the sunset than from one of their beach chairs with a cold Caguama beer. By night, the Punta is generally quiet \u2013 jump in a taxi to Zicatela for bars and nightclubs \u2013 but there are also plenty of opportunities for card games, impromptu acoustic concerts and stargazing.dompasteinerBetween Puerto Escondido and Pochutla on Oaxaca\u2019s Pacific coast sits the tiny town of San Agustinillo and perhaps the finest pristine beach in Mexico. The sand is soft, the palm trees sway, the waves are huge and endless. Sunset sees serious surfers share the evening with traditional dancers and music. Hemmed in by cliffs, it has resisted major development and yet found space for cosmopolitan restaurants and luxury and budget accommodation by the beach and on a hillside - at the budget end Posada Paloma (doubles from \u00a317) and El Recinto del Viento (doubles from \u00a312) are superb. This is Mexico as it should be \u2013 catch it while you can.intrepiddenImagine sand as soft as sifted flour, a cyan sky and 13th-century Mayan ruins atop a rocky cliff and you have Tulum, a refreshingly unreconstructed resort on Mexico\u2019s Yucat\u00e1n peninsula. Compared with Canc\u00fan, 80 miles to the north, Tulum will appeal to those who want to let the silence in and experience a sense of timelessness. We stayed at the Secret Garden Tulum Hotel (doubles from \u00a363) which offers a green oasis at reasonable prices. For a dip there are natural limestone pools nearby \u2013 and the warm Caribbean sea of course.Keen123Playa Las Gatas, three miles south of the Zihuatanejo on the Pacific coast, is accessible only by boat or a treacherous pathway, so getting there always seems like an adventure. Named for the whiskered nurse sharks (gatas) that once were common in these waters, Playa Las Gatas offers white sand, and spectacular snorkelling. Adventurous souls can discover \u201cthe King of Kings\u201d a four-metre submerged statue of Jesus placed on the seabed by locals. There are many excellent restaurants along the beach but the coconut shrimp at Otilia is hard to beat. After lunch, take a walk up to the lighthouse to see superb views of the coastline from the cliffs.ID6735676While on the east coast we stopped at the Yucat\u00e1n town of Akumal to do some snorkelling alongside turtles. As much as this was a huge highlight, we also found a great bar/restaurant/hotel called La Buena Vida (doubles from \u00a390), which has a few treehouses. We climbed up a rickety ladder into a private treehouse and our cocktails were placed in a bucket below: we pulled it up and drank while looking out over the white sand.petemarsdenThe four-mile long \u201cIsland of the Women\u201d has some of the best beaches in Mexico. This tranquil island, a 20-minute ferry ride from Canc\u00fan, is fringed with unspoilt white sand beaches and is fabulous for snorkelling and diving. Visit the Musa underwater sculpture, swim alongside whale sharks or dolphins or simply chill on one of the island\u2019s northern or western beaches, such as wonderful Playa Norte.CaroleTidballIn southern Mexico, Guerrero state\u2019s Pacific coast is perfect for a real taste of the country\u2019s laid-back lifestyle. Head for the villages around Barra de Potos\u00ed to snorkel, fish, eat mangos and surf. At sunset, local families emerge, bringing pots and making wooden fires to offer handmade tortillas, tacos and tequila at improvised restaurants with names and menus scrawled in the soft sand. Be ready for tasty feasts and some interesting conversations into the early hours!gonca", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best beaches in Mexico: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-12-02T12:46:33Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Last month we picked some great-value places to stay on Mexico\u2019s renowned Pacific coast. Now we\u2019d like your take on beach holidays all over the country. Have you stayed somewhere wonderful on either the Caribbean or western coast? Maybe you\u2019ve had a memorable meal to the sound of the waves, or even found a top surfing spot to ride those breaks. Send us your tips via GuardianWitness \u2013 including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher.The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You\u2019re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 9 December 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Beaches in Mexico: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-12-19T05:40:45Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "The bodies of two Australian surfers found in Mexico have reportedly been handed to Australia\u2019s consulate for repatriation. Related: Three arrested in Mexico over suspected killing of two Australian tourists The two burnt bodies were identified as those of Dean Lucas and Adam Coleman after authorities conducted DNA tests.Sinaloa officials this month arrested three men over the disappearance, but said two suspects remained at large.Lucas and Coleman, who were on a months-long surfing adventure, were due to reach the western city of Guadalajara on 21 November but did not arrive.News Corp Australia reported on Saturday that the bodies had been handed to Australian officials nearly a month after they were found in a burnt out van in Sinaloa state.It also reported that Mexican prosecutors had alleged that the van was pulled over by an SUV with flashing lights, and that police had recovered municipal and federal police uniforms from the suspects.Australian Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Mexico", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Western Australian surfers' bodies given to consulate in Mexico \u2013 report"},{"date": "2015-12-12T07:00:44Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "As the dozen Mexican cowboys knelt down in Sayulita\u2019s dusty rodeo arena, crossing themselves as they prayed, the 14-piece band cranked up its trumpet fanfare and an irate bull was dragged in front of the crowd and readied for action.The first challenger balanced precariously on the fence before leaping on the animal. The bull thrashed wildly, throwing him to the ground in seconds before the cowboy was dragged away as the band blasted on regardless.We winced, but the crowds \u2013 dressed to impress, the men in pristine cowboy hats and girls in skin-tight jeans and stiletto boots \u2013 whooped as they downed cans of Corona Light sold from old ice-filled buckets and waited for the next bout of man versus beast.The hippy-chic coastal town of Sayulita, on the west coast, which mixes Mexican country culture with Pacific surf, boutiques and cool bars, is off the radar of most British travellers. It was discovered by free-range surfers in the 1960s, but savvy travellers can now use a new charter flight with Thomson, from London Gatwick to Puerto Vallarta, just 45 minutes\u2019 drive away through lush jungle, far from the all-inclusive resorts.I was here with my partner and two children, aged five and seven. The day after the rodeo, we wandered down to Sayulita\u2019s magnificent swathe of beach where surfers and paddle-boarders drifted lazily in the early morning glow, waiting for the ideal wave to peel in, as a haze drifted over the sand and the palapa-thatched roofs of clifftop villas blended in with the palms.A bikini-clad girl casually teetered up her long board to \u201chang ten\u201d, while a squadron of pelicans swerved past and a handful of fishing boats putted out to sea. Its beach break has long made Sayulita a surf mecca, and surf schools stack their boards on the sand each morning as they open for business. It\u2019s also big for stand-up paddleboarding, and the world championships were held here in May.In the shady plaza, faded bunting fluttered as indigenous Huichol people in embroidered suits set out their beaded jewellery. A pick-up truck shattered the peace as it clattered along the cobbles, blaring its sales pitch for strawberries from a megaphone taped to the roof. There\u2019s plenty for shoppers in Sayulita: stylish Origenes (Calle Marlin 2) sells leather bags in vibrant tangerine, crimson and apple green, intricately hand-embroidered bedspreads and striped baskets woven by prison inmates, while Boho Wheels\u2019 bike-top shop pops up at night to sell handmade jewellery and purses.Revolucion del Sueno (55 Calle Manuel Navarrete) does a roaring trade in kitsch T-shirts featuring Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, alongside bright throws and bags. Nearby, Artefakto (Delfin #15) stocks unusual ceramics, art and textiles from around the country.On a mission to find Sayulita\u2019s best street food, we queued for chicken mole tacos at hole-in-the-wall Naty\u2019s Cocina (Calle Marlin 13) before enduring mind-bendingly spicy aguachile prawn tostadas at popular stall El Rinconcito (Avenida Revolucion and Rio Zarquito), perching on plastic stools while gringos swerved past on golf carts.To work off the pounds, we trekked through the jungle from Sayulita to sleepier San Pancho, a few miles north, scrambling over fallen trees and following a stream through dense foliage. Giant termite mounds and thick vines helped distract the kids\u2019 from their endless \u201cAre we there yet?\u201d. Apparently we weren\u2019t, and after an hour we were somehow back where we started so opted to drive the few miles the next day instead.San Pancho, with its hipster cafes, galleries and bohemian shops, operates at a lazier pace than Sayulita, and the bars on its quiet beach are perfect for trying micheladas (spicy bloody marys made with beer, tomato juice, lime, chilli and salt) while watching pelicans plummet into the surf.Some evenings the cowboys come to town, prancing their immaculate horses up the main road with cans of beer in hand and their girlfriends on the back, while a band belts out tunes and elderly couples dance in the plaza.We made it back to Sayulita in time for tequila cocktails blended with roasted jalapenos and ginger at Escondido (Calle Marlin 45A), before swaying on swings outside Atico hookah bar (Calle Mariscal, Unit 18) sipping smoky mezcal with chilli salt.Next, crisp calamari at Los Corazones (Calle Jose Mariscal 15A) and a nightcap at Petit Hotel Hafa\u2019s unselfconsciously cool Le Zouave bar (Avenida Revolucion 55), where the French owner was holding court. If you want to be close to the action, Petit Hotel Hafa (doubles from at $50) makes a great budget base \u2013 all scarlet-walled, boho chic with a Mexico-meets-Morocco theme, simple rooms and roof terrace.For seaside accommodation, Casablanca (two-bedroom suites for four with kitchen from $95) is a good family option, with a pool and near the Campamento Tortugero Sayulita turtle camp , where they protect eggs from poachers and where visitors can help release the tiny newborn olive ridley sea turtles when they hatch (from November-February).Elsewhere, the ocean views from the villas at Siete Lunas (doubles from $175) above nearby Playa de los Muertos are spectacular, although the vertiginous plunge from the horseshoe-shaped pool could prove hazardous for kids.The ocean around Sayulita is prime whale-watching territory during the winter months and it\u2019s easy to glimpse enormous humpbacks cruising down the coast on their annual migration as you sit on the beach.Hoping for a close up, we set off early one morning on the 17-metre Ally Cat yacht for a sailing trip to the rocky Marieta Islands, a Unesco biosphere reserve also known for its blue-footed boobies. As we headed across Banderas Bay, a mother and baby humpback arched alongside before a huge whale breached in front of the catamaran. The captain dropped a microphone overboard and the low groan of whale song reverberated.\u201cIt\u2019s a macho one, it sounds like Chewbacca,\u201d said one of the crew. At the uninhabited Marietas islands, we swam past preening blue-footed birds through a cave to a hidden beach, catching snippets of whale song as we snorkelled to the boat. Giddy on mai tais, we lounged at the bow watching dolphins loop past, feeling like extras in an 1980s pop video.Back on dry land, we spent a couple of days exploring the coast just south of Sayulita \u2013 careering along dirt tracks to wild Playa Carricitos, driving along a river bed to deserted Playa Patzcuaro and swimming at tranquil Los Muertos, where bonfire smoke drifted among the graves at the colourful cemetery nestled in the jungle \u2013 until we were finally beached out.Pestered by the kids for more cowboy action, we drove to the laidback Lo de Marcos, 20 minutes\u2019 away, to meet Antonio Aguirre, with his well-groomed moustache and huge sombrero, who took us horse riding (+521 322 121 4254, $10 an hour for beach/jungle rides) along lush tracks in comfy western saddles while extolling the virtues of Corona Light and armadillo skin \u201cscratchings\u201d.People scattered as we cantered back along the beach, the kids yee-hawing as their arms and legs flapped wildly, and we made a date with Antonio for the upcoming rodeo at his ranch. The bright lights and busy all-inclusive resorts of Puerto Vallarta might not have been far away, but this felt like another Mexico entirely.\u2022 Thomson (thomson.co.uk) flies to Puerto Vallarta from Gatwick and Manchester from \u00a3439 return. Sayulita is a 45-minute drive from the airport. The best time to visit the Pacific coast is between November and May, before the high temperatures and humidity of the rainy season1\u00bc hours from Puerto Vallarta airportHead to the cape south of Puerto Vallarta where miles of deserted beaches stretch along the coast, dotted with tiny harbours. Stay off the beaten track at Cabanas El Cielito (from around \u00a320pp a night, kids \u00a310) and while away the hours swaying in a beachside hammock. If you\u2019re feeling more adventurous, kayak up the nearby estuary, home to a vast array of birds and wildlife. Eat fish and oysters in the nearby village of Tehuamixtle and wash them down with the locally produced raicilla mezcal.1\u00bd hours from Puerto Vallarta airportEscape the heat of the Pacific coast by driving into the mountains to the tiny former gold and silver mining town. Galleried colonial buildings stretch the length of the pretty plaza and you can explore old mines dug into the hills or hike up to Cerro de la Bufa for magnificent views over lush valleys to the sea beyond. Step back in time and stay at the Mansion Real Hotel (doubles from \u00a340) and try El Fortin\u2019s locally grown coffee and creamy pistachio rompope liquor.Three hours from Puerto Vallarta airportExplore the shores of this spectacular lake, nestled inside a volcanic crater. Dive off wooden pontoons or rent a kayak to paddle out to the deep lake centre. Go back to basics at Koala Bungalows (doubles from \u00a326)with their lakeside views, or book a cabin at the Santa Maria Resort (doubles from \u00a3140). Lunch at the open-air restaurants on the lake shore, where the local speciality is chicharrones de pescado, deep-fried chunks of fish, and cold Pacifico beer. SH2\u00bd hours from Cancun airport to Chiquil\u00e1, then half-hour ferry ride Snorkel alongside whale sharks, the biggest fish in the world, in the clear waters northwest of Cancun, where the giant spotted creatures come to gorge on plankton between May and September. Whizz around the sandy sliver of an island by golf cart, spot wildlife in the Yum-Balam biosphere reserve, or just lounge on the beach and watch the sun set from Punta Coco. Stay on the beach at Casa las Tortugas (rooms from $141) and pull up a chair at Las Panchas for stingray empanadas and conch ceviche.4\u00bd hours from Cancun airportBag a flight to Cancun and then head west to the other side of the Yucat\u00e1n peninsula and this sleepy Gulf Coast town, where thousands of flamingos flock to its biosphere reserve and birdwatchers take boats through the lagoons and mangroves. Eat ceviche and coconut shrimp at one of the handful of laid-back restaurants on the white sand beach, and wake up to the sound of the sea at Casa de Celeste Vida (doubles from $95).", "tags": ["Mexico holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Beach holidays", "Food and drink", "Surfing holidays", "Flights"], "title": "Sayulita, hippy-chic Mexico on the Pacific coast"},{"date": "2015-12-15T16:27:39Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "Printer and software giant Lexmark has fired dozens of workers from its factory in the Mexican city of Ciudad J\u00faarez after they demanded a pay rise of $0.35 per day.Hundreds of workers at the printer cartridge plant went on strike last week, calling for the company to increase its daily rate for experienced employees from 114 to 120 pesos \u2013 a raise of approximately $0.35.Days later, Lexmark fired around 120 of the striking workers. Most of those dismissed had been involved in attempts to set up an independent union to advocate pay increases and improvements in working conditions. The mass layoff has left families in dire straits in the run-up to the holidays. Low-paid workers in Mexico often rely on the traditional end of year benefit \u2013 known as the Aguinaldo \u2013 to settle debts and pay for Christmas.Ciudad J\u00faarez is the hub of Mexico\u2019s manufacturing sector, with around 300,000 factory workers but no independent unions. The city \u2013 located over the border from El Paso, Texas \u2013 was until recently the most dangerous in the world as warring drug cartels battled over territory.But despite ongoing security concerns, American companies are drawn to the city by tax benefits offered through the North American Free Trade Agreement, low transport costs due to its proximity to the border and low wages. Mexico\u2019s minimum daily wage is 70 pesos \u2013 around $4. The bilateral trade relationship between Mexico and the US is worth over half a trillion dollars a year. This year has seen a wave of protests by factory workers in Ciudad J\u00faarez amid growing anger low pay, harsh conditions and weak labour rights which campaigners say haven\u2019t improved in decades. Lexmark, a world leader in laser printers, is worth $2.01bn. In 2014, its revenue totalled $3.7bn, though it has fallen this year. It employs 14,000 people worldwide. Related: When I lost my hands making flatscreens I can't afford, nobody would help me | Rosa Moreno Discontent among its workers had been brewing for months, with reports of harassment, unfair wage deductions and unsafe work conditions as well as poor wages. Miriam Delgado, 37, who was fired last week after five years and seven months at Lexmark, told the Guardian: \u201cThey didn\u2019t provide face masks or gloves to protect us, many people have injured hands. They cut our salaries for being even slightly late, even if our children were sick and we had to take them to hospital, and we had to put up with harassment from supervisors.\u201d In October, the disgruntlement intensified after the company rejected a request to increase the top salary band to 120 pesos a day. In response, a group of 78 workers, including Delgado, submitted a formal request to start a union before the state government\u2019s Board of Conciliation and Arbitration in hope of negotiating improvements. The 78 were among the group fired last week after participating in a strike with around 700 colleagues. Susana Prieto Terrazas, the lawyer representing the workers, told news website Sin Embargo that the layoffs suggested collusion between the company and the state government, as only the Board of Conciliation and Arbitration had the list of names.Government officials have publicly accused the labour organisers of self-interest, and said striking was not the right way to improve conditions.An unfair dismissal complaint will be lodged before the Board this week, said Prieto Terrazas. In a statement Jerry Grasso, company spokesman, told the Guardian: \u201cWe take our values of mutual respect and employee satisfaction very seriously. We are committed to engaging in open and honest conversations with our employees to ensure Lexmark continues to be a rewarding place to work.\u201dDelgado, who has worked in factories since moving to Ciudad Juarez 30 years ago, told the Guardian: \u201cThey fired those of us who were trying to organise and fight. Nothing has changed in Juarez, we are still forced to put up with unjust and undignified working conditions. I don\u2019t know what I will do, but I can\u2019t work in the factories anymore.\u201d Lexmark\u2019s disputes with labor have landed the firm in legal trouble domestically as well: in 2010 an LA county superior court judge found that the company\u2019s longstanding \u201cuse it or lose it\u201d vacation policy (which disallowed employees from rolling vacation days into the new year) was in fact illegal; a year later an appeals court ruled against the company again, though it reduced the multimillion-dollar payout on appeal.The policy, which was ruled wage theft, had been in place since Lexmark spun off from IBM in 1991.Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Lexmark spun off from Microsoft, instead of IBM. ", "tags": ["Business", "Mexico", "Technology", "World news", "Software", "Computing", "Americas"], "title": "Printer giant Lexmark fires Mexico factory workers demanding $0.35 raise"},{"date": "2015-12-03T00:55:26Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A Coca-Cola Mexico spokesman apologised and said the company had pulled an online ad after it was deemed offensive to the country\u2019s indigenous people by consumers, media and advocacy groups. Related: Coca-Cola under fire over ad showing Coke handout to indigenous people Coke director of publicity Diego Bracamontes said the ad was taken down late on Tuesday after about a week online in Mexico and that the company had never meant to offend anyone.The \u201cOpen Your Heart\u201d holiday campaign came under fire with its portrayal of light-skinned white people driving into the remote hills of Oaxaca to hand out Coke to indigenous Mixe people and put up a Coke-themed Christmas tree.Campaigners from the country\u2019s Alliance for Food Health said it was insulting to indigenous people who are some of the most affected by Mexico\u2019s epidemic rate of obesity, which is fuelled partly by high consumption of sugary soda drinks. Bracamontes told the Associated Press on Wednesday that the message had been misinterpreted and the campaign was intended to be about unity and happiness across communities.With Associated Press", "tags": ["Mexico", "Coca-Cola", "Indigenous peoples", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Coca-Cola drops controversial Christmas video set in indigenous Mexico"},{"date": "2015-11-20T11:53:01Z", "country": "mexico", "content": "A provider of low-cost, high-quality ophthalmic care to Mexico\u2019s mid- and low-income populations, salauno, has joined the Business Call to Action with a plan to increase the number of patients it treats each year and expand its reach in Latin America by 2020. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations. By leveraging the cost efficiencies of its \u201chub-and-spoke\u201d model, salauno aims to become Mexico\u2019s leading provider of eye care by 2020 \u2013 serving 500,000 low-income patients with a full range of ophthalmic services \u2013 and will perform 25,000 surgeries annually. This will require expanding the number of clinics and hospitals 10 times. The increase in patients and facilities will enable the company to continue providing high-quality eye care at rates that are 40% below market. Related: How bicycles are creating opportunities and employment for Mozambicans \u201cThe link between poverty and health is one of the nation\u2019s biggest challenges. A lack of access to quality ophthalmic care leaves thousands of poor Mexicans blind, impeding their ability to break the cycle of poverty. salauno wants to eliminate needless blindness in Mexico and transform the lives of our patients,\u201d said Javier Okhuysen, salauno\u2019s co-chief executive officer. \u201cOur goal is to become Latin America\u2019s leading ophthalmology provider in mid-low income communities and we are honoured to have our inclusive business recognised by the BCtA.\u201d Blindness is the second leading cause of disability in Mexico and isoften a result of cataracts and diabetic retinopathy. With 300,000 cases annually, cataracts account for 40% of all cases of blindness, but only 175,000 surgeries are performed each year. Diabetes affects 16% of Mexico\u2019s adult population - one of the highest in the world - but only 50% of people are aware of their condition. As a result, approximately 30% of all cases of blindness in the country \u2013 approximately 9 million people \u2013 are due to diabetic retinopathy. Another 2 million are presumed to have cataracts but have not yet received treatment. These numbers are projected to increase along with the rising incidence of diabetes coupled with an ageing population.Both diabetes and cataracts are avoidable with early detection and proper treatment. But while cataract surgery is considered one of the safest and most cost-effective procedures in healthcare, Mexico has the lowest cataract surgery rate among all OECD countries at 1.7m per year \u2013 well below the minimal acceptable rate of 3.5m per year set by the World Health Organisation (WHO). According to WHO, Mexicans have already lost 55,000 healthy years as a result of blindness among poor people, and the number continues to grow. These statistics have driven salauno\u2019s management to build an inclusive business focusing on people living at the base of the economic pyramid. Their research determined that patients were willing to pay the equivalent of one month\u2019s income for cataract surgery. Most providers charge up to five times the average monthly income, thus reaching only 35% of the population. The other 65% have been forced to seek other options, including the public health system, where cataract surgery waiting lists can exceed 11 months. salauno\u2019s first clinics were located in mid- and low-income, high-density areas of Mexico City, where other healthcare is inaccessible or unaffordable. In its first four years, salauno saw more than 100,000 patients and performed 12,000 surgeries \u2013 5,000 of them were performed free of charge through cross subsides, government and social partners support. More than 30% of patients came from households earning less than $899 (\u00a3587) per year. As it grew, salauno adapted best practices from India\u2019s renowned Aravind Eye Care System, one of the world\u2019s largest eye care facilities and a recognised leader in compassionate care. Standardised procedures designed by a team of skilled professionals optimise each practitioner\u2019s strengths and ensure that doctors are able to focus exclusively on patient treatment. As a result, salauno is able to charge 40% below the market rate and its surgeons perform five times more procedures than the average ophthalmologist in Mexico.  Related: Eco-friendly bio-toilets improving health and dignity for India\u2019s poor salauno is on track to open a 3,000 m2 hospital in Mexico City by mid 2016 and nine diagnostic clinics by the end of 2016. By 2020, the company expects to replicate its model in five different cities in Mexico. The company and its shareholders (IFC and ADOBE Capital) are funding the expansion, and salauno expects each clinic to be sustainable after five months. In addition, in 2016 the company aims to host 200 diabetic retinopathy and cataract \u201coutreach camps\u201d for Mexico\u2019s poorest people. \u201cAccessible and affordable healthcare is a vital contributor to social and economic development at the base of the economic pyramid. salauno\u2019s inclusive business model is a wonderful example of the private sector\u2019s ability to tackle the challenge of affordable care for the benefit of both the company and its patients,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA acting manager. \u201cWe welcome Salauno\u2019s membership in the BCtA and look forward to learning from and working with them.\u201dLearn more about salauno here. For more information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgsalauno: Javier Okhuysen at javier.okhuysen@salauno.com.mxContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Eye-care provider aims to eliminate needless blindness in Mexico"},