{"date": "2008-02-06T15:55:24Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The cabinet of the caretaker prime minister, Romano Prodi, who co-signed the dissolution decree, announced an election for April 13-14.The former prime minister, media magnate and chief opposition rival, Silvio Berlusconi, had been clamouring for a snap election.The president said he made the decision to dissolve parliament with \"regret\", adding that it \"was made necessary by the negative outcome\" of efforts by senate speaker Franco Marini to form an interim government tasked with reforming Italy's electoral system.Marini's efforts stumbled on the refusal of Berlusconi and his allies to countenance anything but a return an election.Napolitano said that calling early elections was as \"anomaly which will not be without consequences for the governability of the country\".After Prodi's centre-left government was brought down by the defection of a tiny centrist party after 20 months in power, much of the political class as well as the electorate called for an overhaul of the voting system before any new elections.The poll will be held just over two years after Prodi defeated Berlusconi in the closest election in modern Italian history. This time around the media billionaire will be up against Walter Veltroni, the popular 52-year-old mayor of Rome and poster boy for the left.", "tags": ["World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy announces election date"},{"date": "2008-06-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The French public has long debated her musical talent, nude posing and colourful love life, but now France has a new and explosive revelation about first lady Carla Bruni to argue over.Italian-born Bruni was hoping for a French defeat last night in the country's do or die clash with Italy in the European football championships.\"Carla is embarrassed to admit it, but tonight she will be supporting Italy,\" said her mother, Maria Bruni Tedeschi. \"There is no doubt. You don't change your team, above all the national team,\" she added. Bruni was born in Italy before moving to France at an early age and remains a fan of Turin team Juventus. Winners of the World Cup in 1998 and 2006 respectively, France and Italy are accustomed to fighting for top honours, most recently in 2006 when Zinedine Zidane butted Italy's Marco Materazzi in the chest after Materazzi made a disparaging remark about his sister.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bruni cheers Italy"},{"date": "2008-06-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The French public has long debated her musical talent, nude posing and colourful love life, but now France has a new and explosive revelation about first lady Carla Bruni to argue over.Italian-born Bruni was hoping for a French defeat last night in the country's do or die clash with Italy in the European football championships.\"Carla is embarrassed to admit it, but tonight she will be supporting Italy,\" said her mother, Maria Bruni Tedeschi. \"There is no doubt. You don't change your team, above all the national team,\" she added. Bruni was born in Italy before moving to France at an early age and remains a fan of Turin team Juventus. Winners of the World Cup in 1998 and 2006 respectively, France and Italy are accustomed to fighting for top honours, most recently in 2006 when Zinedine Zidane butted Italy's Marco Materazzi in the chest after Materazzi made a disparaging remark about his sister.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bruni cheers Italy"},{"date": "2008-04-16T14:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The emergence of Silvio Berlusconi as the dominant political figure in Italy is the single most depressing event in Europe over the last decade. His role as political leader and the country's most powerful media tycoon have brought into question to what extent Italy can be described as a democracy. True, Berlusconi has been elected via the ballot box, but when he controls all the major private TV channels and has reshaped the state's channels in his own image, while also owning several newspapers, then the dice are hugely loaded in his favour.Democracy is not just a matter of an individual casting a vote: it also depends on the ability of the individual voter to access the different positions on offer in a relatively objective and equal way. That has palpably not been the case in Italy since 1994. Democracy depends on a separation of economic and political power. The growth of lobby interests in the United States has significantly weakened that separation. So has the rise of the rich as the main funders of Britain's two main parties. But the degeneration in these cases is on nothing like the same scale as Italy.One is reminded in the Italian case of how recent - and fragile - the democratic system still is. Between the wars, it fell victim to the rise of Mussolini and the fascists. Even after 1945, the political system was a peculiar beast: in effect, half-democratic and half-authoritarian, with only the Christian Democrats allowed to govern, and the left permanently excluded from government. Berlusconi lies in a tradition where democracy has always had what might be described as a contingent, even shadowy existence. Nothing is ever quite as it seems: whether it is the role of the mafia, the security services, or, even during the cold war, western intelligence. (Remember the murder of Aldo Moro, or Roberto Calvi, or the bombing of Bologna station: decades on, we remain none the wiser about who was really responsible.)Berlusconi is a product of this tradition - he bears some of the characteristics of Mussolini - but he is also distinctive, palpably a man of his time, even if he reflects its very worst aspects. Essentially, what Berlusconi represents is the conquest and occupation of the state by private interests. It is the underlying weakness and lack of legitimacy of the Italian state in the popular mind that makes this possible.Italians support Berlusconi not despite but because he uses the state for his own personal ends. He sees the state in same way as many Italians view it: as something to be used and manipulated for their own private interests. Over a century after unification, Italy has failed to create a state that the people regard as legitimate and representative. Or, to put it another way, the Italian state is neither a rogue state, nor a failed state, but a dysfunctional state.It was impossible for the post-war system to create a legitimate state because it was bifurcated between left and right. But the end of the cold war, alas, has failed to offer any solution to this ongoing crisis of the Italian polity. On the contrary, the democratic system has been the subject of a far more serious atrophy, corrosion and degeneration.Meanwhile, the country, whoever is in power, now seems incapable of economic growth and singularly unable to tackle any of its increasingly serious problems. Berlusconi, in the light of his two previous terms, is incapable of resolving the crisis. The left appears too weak, both politically and electorally. How long will this impasse continue? And what might happen next? One fears for Italy's future.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Is Italy still a democracy?"},{"date": "2008-08-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian mayors have issued a series of bizarre by-laws including a \u20ac500 (\u00a3400) fine for kissing in cars in Eboli and a \u20ac250 fine for building sandcastles on the beach at Eraclea, near Venice. Encouraged by a national crackdown on crime and spurred by a decree giving extra powers to maintain order, mayors have banned a myriad of pet hates. Smoking on the beach at Oristano in Sardinia attracts a \u20ac360 fine, while anyone fleeing to the mountains of Alto Adige should resist picking mushrooms or pay \u20ac113. Wearing noisy wooden clogs or wandering off the beach in a bikini in Capri is forbidden, as is feeding pigeons in Lucca, lighting fireworks in Positano, apart from on Saturdays, and mowing lawns in Forte di Marmi at weekends. The government has also got in on the act, this month banning the increasing number of Chinese women who patrol Italy's beaches offering massages.", "tags": ["Italy", "Travel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy bans sandcastles and bikinis"},{"date": "2008-08-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian mayors have issued a series of bizarre by-laws including a \u20ac500 (\u00a3400) fine for kissing in cars in Eboli and a \u20ac250 fine for building sandcastles on the beach at Eraclea, near Venice. Encouraged by a national crackdown on crime and spurred by a decree giving extra powers to maintain order, mayors have banned a myriad of pet hates. Smoking on the beach at Oristano in Sardinia attracts a \u20ac360 fine, while anyone fleeing to the mountains of Alto Adige should resist picking mushrooms or pay \u20ac113. Wearing noisy wooden clogs or wandering off the beach in a bikini in Capri is forbidden, as is feeding pigeons in Lucca, lighting fireworks in Positano, apart from on Saturdays, and mowing lawns in Forte di Marmi at weekends. The government has also got in on the act, this month banning the increasing number of Chinese women who patrol Italy's beaches offering massages.", "tags": ["Italy", "Travel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy bans sandcastles and bikinis"},{"date": "2008-08-30T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy has agreed to pay Libya \u00a32.75bn in compensation for its 30-year occupation of the country, which ended in 1943. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Libyan leader Muammar Gadaffi signed a memorandum pledging a compensation package involving construction projects, student grants and pensions for Libyan soldiers who served with the Italians during the Second World War.'It is a material and emotional recognition of the mistakes that our country has done to yours during the colonial era,' said Berlusconi. 'This agreement opens the path to further co-operation.'In return, Italy wants Libya to crack down on the number of illegal migrants turning up on Italian shores. Italy will fund \u00a3275m worth of electronic monitoring devices on the Libyan coastline.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: Libya pay-off for 'colonial mistakes'"},{"date": "2008-08-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian mayors have issued a series of bizarre by-laws including a \u20ac500 (\u00a3400) fine for kissing in cars in Eboli and a \u20ac250 fine for building sandcastles on the beach at Eraclea, near Venice. Encouraged by a national crackdown on crime and spurred by a decree giving extra powers to maintain order, mayors have banned a myriad of pet hates. Smoking on the beach at Oristano in Sardinia attracts a \u20ac360 fine, while anyone fleeing to the mountains of Alto Adige should resist picking mushrooms or pay \u20ac113. Wearing noisy wooden clogs or wandering off the beach in a bikini in Capri is forbidden, as is feeding pigeons in Lucca, lighting fireworks in Positano, apart from on Saturdays, and mowing lawns in Forte di Marmi at weekends. The government has also got in on the act, this month banning the increasing number of Chinese women who patrol Italy's beaches offering massages.", "tags": ["Italy", "Travel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy bans sandcastles and bikinis"},{"date": "2008-08-30T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy has agreed to pay Libya \u00a32.75bn in compensation for its 30-year occupation of the country, which ended in 1943. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Libyan leader Muammar Gadaffi signed a memorandum pledging a compensation package involving construction projects, student grants and pensions for Libyan soldiers who served with the Italians during the Second World War.'It is a material and emotional recognition of the mistakes that our country has done to yours during the colonial era,' said Berlusconi. 'This agreement opens the path to further co-operation.'In return, Italy wants Libya to crack down on the number of illegal migrants turning up on Italian shores. Italy will fund \u00a3275m worth of electronic monitoring devices on the Libyan coastline.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: Libya pay-off for 'colonial mistakes'"},{"date": "2008-08-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian police have arrested 13 people on charges of faking cremations at a Tuscan cemetery and hiding the corpses before burning them in groups to pocket the savings on cremation costs. Investigators found bodies stashed at the cemetery in Massa ready for group cremations, as well as hidden plastic sacks containing about 600kg of mixed ashes - the fruits of a scam that ran from 2005 to 2007, involving 500 bodies, police said. The police round-up of cemetery and funeral home staff, as well as a former police officer allegedly involved in the scheme, has now left locals wondering whose ashes they were handed following cremations. Emiliano Pianini, a lawyer representing relatives of the dead, said: \"Hopes of identifying ashes are almost non-existent since it is impossible to carry out DNA testing.\" Police unearthed the racket after discovering that coffins and other religious accessories supposedly burnt in cremations were surfacing on the second-hand market, sold by cemetery staff. Last year an employee gave evidence of the scam to police, prompting the investigation that led to this week's arrests.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Cemetery staff turn ash into cash"},{"date": "2008-08-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian mayors have issued a series of bizarre by-laws including a \u20ac500 (\u00a3400) fine for kissing in cars in Eboli and a \u20ac250 fine for building sandcastles on the beach at Eraclea, near Venice. Encouraged by a national crackdown on crime and spurred by a decree giving extra powers to maintain order, mayors have banned a myriad of pet hates. Smoking on the beach at Oristano in Sardinia attracts a \u20ac360 fine, while anyone fleeing to the mountains of Alto Adige should resist picking mushrooms or pay \u20ac113. Wearing noisy wooden clogs or wandering off the beach in a bikini in Capri is forbidden, as is feeding pigeons in Lucca, lighting fireworks in Positano, apart from on Saturdays, and mowing lawns in Forte di Marmi at weekends. The government has also got in on the act, this month banning the increasing number of Chinese women who patrol Italy's beaches offering massages.", "tags": ["Italy", "Travel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy bans sandcastles and bikinis"},{"date": "2008-08-30T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy has agreed to pay Libya \u00a32.75bn in compensation for its 30-year occupation of the country, which ended in 1943. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Libyan leader Muammar Gadaffi signed a memorandum pledging a compensation package involving construction projects, student grants and pensions for Libyan soldiers who served with the Italians during the Second World War.'It is a material and emotional recognition of the mistakes that our country has done to yours during the colonial era,' said Berlusconi. 'This agreement opens the path to further co-operation.'In return, Italy wants Libya to crack down on the number of illegal migrants turning up on Italian shores. Italy will fund \u00a3275m worth of electronic monitoring devices on the Libyan coastline.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: Libya pay-off for 'colonial mistakes'"},{"date": "2008-08-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian police have arrested 13 people on charges of faking cremations at a Tuscan cemetery and hiding the corpses before burning them in groups to pocket the savings on cremation costs. Investigators found bodies stashed at the cemetery in Massa ready for group cremations, as well as hidden plastic sacks containing about 600kg of mixed ashes - the fruits of a scam that ran from 2005 to 2007, involving 500 bodies, police said. The police round-up of cemetery and funeral home staff, as well as a former police officer allegedly involved in the scheme, has now left locals wondering whose ashes they were handed following cremations. Emiliano Pianini, a lawyer representing relatives of the dead, said: \"Hopes of identifying ashes are almost non-existent since it is impossible to carry out DNA testing.\" Police unearthed the racket after discovering that coffins and other religious accessories supposedly burnt in cremations were surfacing on the second-hand market, sold by cemetery staff. Last year an employee gave evidence of the scam to police, prompting the investigation that led to this week's arrests.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Cemetery staff turn ash into cash"},{"date": "2008-07-24T16:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Images of a sun-drenched Italian beach began flooding media outlets across the world on July 19. Unlike most photographs of the idyllic Mediterranean shores that usually adorn the travel sections of newspapers and glossy magazines, however, the pictures \u2013 showing two young girls' bodies laid out on the sand next to apparently oblivious sunbathers \u2013 shocked those who saw them.The bodies belonged to two Roma sisters, Violetta and Cristina, who had been selling trinkets on the beach in Torregaveta, near Naples, and who had given in to the temptation to take a refreshing dip despite not knowing how to swim. Two of their companions were saved by local lifeguards and coastguard officials, but Violetta and Cristina did not make it back alive. Their bodies were then laid out on the sand for hours while picnicking locals carried on with their day out by the sea. Paramedics eventually carried the coffins away, skirting tanned holidaymakers sprawled on their deckchairs. Despite the foreign media highlighting the \"outrage\" sweeping the country, reactions to the incident have been few and far between. Opera Nomadi, a Roma rights organisation, and UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, expressed their shock at onlookers' indifference. The Archbishop of Naples, Cardinal Sepe, also released a strongly worded statement, stressing the fact that he hoped \"never to see such images of our city again \u2013 images which are worse than those which showed Naples covered in rubbish\". Local and national politicians chose to ignore what had happened and coverage of the incident quickly faded from major news outlets.Anti-Roma sentiments are deeply entrenched in Italy, with parents still telling their children that they will be stolen by the Gypsies should they misbehave. International organisations such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, as well as leading human rights groups, have been sounding the alarm about discrimination against the Roma in Italy for years, highlighting successive governments' systematic policy of confining Roma to run-down camps which would not look out of place in an African shanty-town.Yet the last few months have seen an unprecedented explosion of anti-Roma feelings as settlements have been torched and their inhabitants forced to flee; families have been harassed and attacked. Inflammatory statements on the part of government and opposition representatives, coupled with a frenzied media campaign linking the Roma to alleged rising crime rates, have led most Italians to view a minority whose roots in the Belpaese can be traced back to the 15th century with deep distrust. A Eurobarometer poll published on July 1 found that 47% of Italians would not want to live near Roma citizens against an EU average of 25%, 14% feel they can trust the Roma (against an EU average of 36%) and only 5% have Roma friends (the EU average is 14%).The government rolled out plans to identify Roma living in the country at the beginning of June. All Roma, including children, were supposed to be fingerprinted and to fill in forms specifying their \"ethnicity\" and religion. The census has sparked outrage on the national and international scene, with Terry Davis, the secretary general of the Council of Europe, stating that the Italian government plan \"invites historical analogies which are so obvious that they do not even have to be spelled out\". Gad Lerner, an influential editorialist, published an article in La Repubblica on July 5 in which he compared the ongoing census to the one carried out by Mussolini in 1938 prior to the rounding up and deportation of thousands of Jews. Lerner noted that most Roma have already been identified by local authorities and the police, with the census being used to demonstrate \u2013 as in 1938 \u2013 that the government is cracking down on inherently \"deviant\" groups. Following the uproar, government plans have been modified. The questionnaires currently being used in Roma camps make no reference to ethnicity or religion and will allegedly only serve to collect data on Roma communities' health and social inclusion. Despite the apparent backtracking, the interior minister remains adamant that the census will go ahead and that it will be over by October. In Naples and Milan, unlike Rome, where the prefect has refused to fingerprint children and the census appears to be \"voluntary\" (Roma who do not wish to be identified are apparently being allowed to do so) both adults and children have been fingerprinted.Violetta and Cristina, whose grandfather left Macedonia 40 years ago to start a new life in Italy, were born in Naples and lived in one of the hundreds of squalid settlements dotting the country. The girls, who were 11 and 12 when they died, were in essence Italian, despite the fact that Italian-born children whose parents are foreigners are not automatically granted Italian citizenship.Their deaths have not, apparently, dampened anti-Roma feelings \u2013 three days after they died, a Roma settlement on the outskirts of Rome was torched. Harsh new legislation cracking down on migrants has just been approved by parliament, part of a government drive to make Italy \"safer\". For Mioara Miclescu, a resident of the camp which was attacked on Tuesday night, and her fellow Roma, however, Italy is not a place where they feel safe. \"We are afraid\", she told journalists.", "tags": ["Italy", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues", "Religion", "World news", "United Nations", "Europe"], "title": "Giulia Lagana: Roma face fear and loathing in Italy"},{"date": "2008-08-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian mayors have issued a series of bizarre by-laws including a \u20ac500 (\u00a3400) fine for kissing in cars in Eboli and a \u20ac250 fine for building sandcastles on the beach at Eraclea, near Venice. Encouraged by a national crackdown on crime and spurred by a decree giving extra powers to maintain order, mayors have banned a myriad of pet hates. Smoking on the beach at Oristano in Sardinia attracts a \u20ac360 fine, while anyone fleeing to the mountains of Alto Adige should resist picking mushrooms or pay \u20ac113. Wearing noisy wooden clogs or wandering off the beach in a bikini in Capri is forbidden, as is feeding pigeons in Lucca, lighting fireworks in Positano, apart from on Saturdays, and mowing lawns in Forte di Marmi at weekends. The government has also got in on the act, this month banning the increasing number of Chinese women who patrol Italy's beaches offering massages.", "tags": ["Italy", "Travel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy bans sandcastles and bikinis"},{"date": "2008-08-30T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy has agreed to pay Libya \u00a32.75bn in compensation for its 30-year occupation of the country, which ended in 1943. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Libyan leader Muammar Gadaffi signed a memorandum pledging a compensation package involving construction projects, student grants and pensions for Libyan soldiers who served with the Italians during the Second World War.'It is a material and emotional recognition of the mistakes that our country has done to yours during the colonial era,' said Berlusconi. 'This agreement opens the path to further co-operation.'In return, Italy wants Libya to crack down on the number of illegal migrants turning up on Italian shores. Italy will fund \u00a3275m worth of electronic monitoring devices on the Libyan coastline.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: Libya pay-off for 'colonial mistakes'"},{"date": "2008-08-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian police have arrested 13 people on charges of faking cremations at a Tuscan cemetery and hiding the corpses before burning them in groups to pocket the savings on cremation costs. Investigators found bodies stashed at the cemetery in Massa ready for group cremations, as well as hidden plastic sacks containing about 600kg of mixed ashes - the fruits of a scam that ran from 2005 to 2007, involving 500 bodies, police said. The police round-up of cemetery and funeral home staff, as well as a former police officer allegedly involved in the scheme, has now left locals wondering whose ashes they were handed following cremations. Emiliano Pianini, a lawyer representing relatives of the dead, said: \"Hopes of identifying ashes are almost non-existent since it is impossible to carry out DNA testing.\" Police unearthed the racket after discovering that coffins and other religious accessories supposedly burnt in cremations were surfacing on the second-hand market, sold by cemetery staff. Last year an employee gave evidence of the scam to police, prompting the investigation that led to this week's arrests.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Cemetery staff turn ash into cash"},{"date": "2008-07-24T16:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Images of a sun-drenched Italian beach began flooding media outlets across the world on July 19. Unlike most photographs of the idyllic Mediterranean shores that usually adorn the travel sections of newspapers and glossy magazines, however, the pictures \u2013 showing two young girls' bodies laid out on the sand next to apparently oblivious sunbathers \u2013 shocked those who saw them.The bodies belonged to two Roma sisters, Violetta and Cristina, who had been selling trinkets on the beach in Torregaveta, near Naples, and who had given in to the temptation to take a refreshing dip despite not knowing how to swim. Two of their companions were saved by local lifeguards and coastguard officials, but Violetta and Cristina did not make it back alive. Their bodies were then laid out on the sand for hours while picnicking locals carried on with their day out by the sea. Paramedics eventually carried the coffins away, skirting tanned holidaymakers sprawled on their deckchairs. Despite the foreign media highlighting the \"outrage\" sweeping the country, reactions to the incident have been few and far between. Opera Nomadi, a Roma rights organisation, and UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, expressed their shock at onlookers' indifference. The Archbishop of Naples, Cardinal Sepe, also released a strongly worded statement, stressing the fact that he hoped \"never to see such images of our city again \u2013 images which are worse than those which showed Naples covered in rubbish\". Local and national politicians chose to ignore what had happened and coverage of the incident quickly faded from major news outlets.Anti-Roma sentiments are deeply entrenched in Italy, with parents still telling their children that they will be stolen by the Gypsies should they misbehave. International organisations such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, as well as leading human rights groups, have been sounding the alarm about discrimination against the Roma in Italy for years, highlighting successive governments' systematic policy of confining Roma to run-down camps which would not look out of place in an African shanty-town.Yet the last few months have seen an unprecedented explosion of anti-Roma feelings as settlements have been torched and their inhabitants forced to flee; families have been harassed and attacked. Inflammatory statements on the part of government and opposition representatives, coupled with a frenzied media campaign linking the Roma to alleged rising crime rates, have led most Italians to view a minority whose roots in the Belpaese can be traced back to the 15th century with deep distrust. A Eurobarometer poll published on July 1 found that 47% of Italians would not want to live near Roma citizens against an EU average of 25%, 14% feel they can trust the Roma (against an EU average of 36%) and only 5% have Roma friends (the EU average is 14%).The government rolled out plans to identify Roma living in the country at the beginning of June. All Roma, including children, were supposed to be fingerprinted and to fill in forms specifying their \"ethnicity\" and religion. The census has sparked outrage on the national and international scene, with Terry Davis, the secretary general of the Council of Europe, stating that the Italian government plan \"invites historical analogies which are so obvious that they do not even have to be spelled out\". Gad Lerner, an influential editorialist, published an article in La Repubblica on July 5 in which he compared the ongoing census to the one carried out by Mussolini in 1938 prior to the rounding up and deportation of thousands of Jews. Lerner noted that most Roma have already been identified by local authorities and the police, with the census being used to demonstrate \u2013 as in 1938 \u2013 that the government is cracking down on inherently \"deviant\" groups. Following the uproar, government plans have been modified. The questionnaires currently being used in Roma camps make no reference to ethnicity or religion and will allegedly only serve to collect data on Roma communities' health and social inclusion. Despite the apparent backtracking, the interior minister remains adamant that the census will go ahead and that it will be over by October. In Naples and Milan, unlike Rome, where the prefect has refused to fingerprint children and the census appears to be \"voluntary\" (Roma who do not wish to be identified are apparently being allowed to do so) both adults and children have been fingerprinted.Violetta and Cristina, whose grandfather left Macedonia 40 years ago to start a new life in Italy, were born in Naples and lived in one of the hundreds of squalid settlements dotting the country. The girls, who were 11 and 12 when they died, were in essence Italian, despite the fact that Italian-born children whose parents are foreigners are not automatically granted Italian citizenship.Their deaths have not, apparently, dampened anti-Roma feelings \u2013 three days after they died, a Roma settlement on the outskirts of Rome was torched. Harsh new legislation cracking down on migrants has just been approved by parliament, part of a government drive to make Italy \"safer\". For Mioara Miclescu, a resident of the camp which was attacked on Tuesday night, and her fellow Roma, however, Italy is not a place where they feel safe. \"We are afraid\", she told journalists.", "tags": ["Italy", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues", "Religion", "World news", "United Nations", "Europe"], "title": "Giulia Lagana: Roma face fear and loathing in Italy"},{"date": "2008-09-27T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Ever since Silvio Berlusconi was re-elected to a third term of office as Prime Minister of Italy, left-wing commentators and activists have bemoaned the failures of the ineffective opposition parties. Now they have found an unlikely heroine in Berlusconi's daughter Barbara, who has taken on her father with an intervention that suggests a promising political future - on the left.Ms Berlusconi is 24, rich, good-looking, and has something of a history when it comes to not toeing the family line. When she was 21, she said would turn off the television if she found her children tuned into a variety show from Berlusconi's Mediaset network. She has also refused to join the Forza Italia party that propelled Berlusconi to power. And last week, to the delight of her father's critics, she called for a clampdown on the rampant conflicts of interest undermining business and politics, a battle cry that could rattle her father as he divides his time between running the country and controlling an empire spanning TV stations, banking, publishing and football. 'I am convinced that the conflict-of-interest question needs to be regulated,' said Barbara Berlusconi, who is wrapping up a thesis on ethics in finance for a philosophy degree in Milan. In an interview with La Stampa last week, she admitted she was fighting a lonely battle, given the apparent lack of national interest. 'Voting has shown that Italians do not see this as necessary,' she said sadly. 'There is a need but no demand.'Her words were pounced on by the hard-left daily Liberazione, which praised Barbara for doing a better job than 'the entire parliamentary opposition', and with bitter irony observed that in Italy the 'government and opposition are now contained in one family'.Silvio Berlusconi has two sons and three daughters by two marriages. Marina, 42, from his first marriage, is a regular high entry in the Forbes 'most powerful women top 100'; Eleonora, Barbara's younger sister from the second marriage to Veronica Lario, has so far shown little interest in politics. But Lario, a former actress whom Berlusconi first encountered when she appeared topless in a Milan theatre production, has revealed liberal inclinations. Lario has kept a low profile, declining to accompany Silvio on state visits while hinting that politics can be a sore topic at the Berlusconi breakfast table. In an interview with Micromega, a fiercely anti-Berlusconi publication, she attacked the war in Iraq in defiance of her husband, who sent troops there. Barbara, Lario's increasingly influential elder daughter, is the co-founder of Milano Young, a charity set up by the offspring of some of Italy's wealthiest businessmen to send money to victims of Asia's 2004 tsunami. The group is rapidly becoming a fashionable meeting place for the young, wealthy and well-connected who want to enjoy life without betraying their social consciences. Recruits include Francesca Versace, of the fashion family; Paolo Ligresti, son of insurance magnate Salvatore; and Geronimo La Russa, son of Ignazio, Defence Minister in Berlusconi's government. The Milano Young website, featuring charity bashes and ski trips, is inviting members to a conference on business ethics next month. 'We need more rules for correct conduct, but also strong institutions to ensure that current laws are really respected,' Barbara says. Her comments are aimed at the meltdown in financial markets, but stand in stark contrast to her father's epic struggle with Italy's judges. Milan prosecutors are attempting to move ahead with a corruption trial involving Berlusconi and David Mills, estranged husband of British Olympics minister Tessa Jowell, while Berlusconi recently pushed through a measure granting the top four officials in Italian government, including himself, immunity from prosecution. For now Barbara remains tight-lipped on whether she has buttonholed her father on the subject of conflicts of interest. 'We have not had the time yet, but he will be the first to see my thesis,' she said. Now a board member at Fininvest, the holding company founded by her father, she has a platform to preach her ideas in the business community, a tough task as Italy slips further down Transparency International's corruption index. Now ranked 55 on the list of the world's least corrupt countries, down from 41 last year, Italy is perceived as having less trustworthy politicians than Chile, South Korea or Costa Rica. The Prime Minister's allies have tried to play down the prospect of a familial insurgency in Italian politics. According to Ignazio La Russa, father of Geronimo: 'Children of politicians or entrepreneurs, just like children of employees and workmen, all aspire to create a better world and should not be labelled \"left-wing\" as a result.'", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Rebel daughter scolds Berlusconi"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's only black MP has warned of growing racism after a surge in attacks on immigrants across the country.'Immigrants are becoming the enemy,' said Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi, 49, who was born in Congo and went to Italy in 1979. 'With an economic crisis under way, Italy has found a scapegoat to blame its woes on.'Touadi, a member of the opposition Values party, spoke out after a spate of assaults on immigrants. In Milan last month Abdul William Guibre, 19, originally from Burkina Faso, was beaten to death in an attack which made headlines across Italy. After accusing Guibre of stealing a packet of biscuits, a bar owner and his son called him a 'dirty black' and set on him with a metal pole.A Senegalese man selling handbags in a Milan street market was beaten with a baseball bat after stallholders reportedly accused him of 'stealing work from Italians'. Outside Naples, six African migrants were shot dead recently by the local mafia, while in Rome a Chinese immigrant was beaten up by boys as young as 15. A Somalian-born woman claimed that at Rome's Ciampino airport she was strip-searched and verbally abused when going through customs. The government's response to the alleged airport incident was swift. The Interior Minister, Roberto Maroni, said he would personally sue the woman for lying. 'Between her version and that of the police I would have no doubt about believing the police,' said Senate leader Maurizio Gasparri.The attacks have come as Italy begins to come to terms with a new generation of black Italians, born to African immigrants who began to arrive in greater numbers towards the end of the 1980s. Milan residents expressed astonishment to reporters when the young blacks who demonstrated after Guibre's murder shouted slogans in thick Milan accents.One emerging black Italian hero making a name in Milan is 18-year-old Mario Balotelli, tipped by many as a future star of the national football team. Born in Palermo to Ghanaian immigrants, Balotelli is on the books of Inter Milan, champions of Serie A, and is one of the first role models for black Italians. Last week he scored two goals for the Italian under-21 side in a 3-1 victory over Israel.'There are now Italians here with non-Italian horizons and this is our future,' said Touadi. For the MP, who forged a career in journalism and local politics in Rome before entering parliament this year, the rising number of incidents is linked to the increasingly strident tone of Maroni's party, the anti-immigrant Northern League, which is a linchpin in Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.'The League is pushing discrimination, separation and xenophobia and dragging the government, and with it Italy, towards the systematic violation of human rights,' he said, citing proposals tabled this month by the party which call for the expulsion of legal immigrants who commit a certain number of offences, restrictions on mixed marriages and a new obligation on doctors to report illegal immigrants in their care. Previous moves to expel vagrant Romanians and jail illegal immigrants were challenged last week by the EU.'For the League, the real problem is not illegal immigration, it's immigration. They need to stop while there is still time,' said Touadi. With legal immigrant numbers rising 17 per cent last year to 3.6 million, Touadi said the spectre of fascism was returning to haunt Italy. 'We've seen Rome taxi drivers chanting \"Duce, Duce\" at the town hall when the new right-wing mayor was elected this year and now fans with swastikas are following the national football team. Italy will need millions of immigrants to maintain its workforce if birth rates continue to be low, and entire sectors of the economy, like hotels and agriculture, would go under now without them, but the government prefers demagoguery.'For Touadi, Italians are being led astray by their leaders. 'Italians are better than this, starting from the Catholic tradition of giving support, to the constitution, which emerged from fascism to focus on individual rights, to Italy's own history of emigration.'The brutal murder of an Italian woman in a Rome back street last year, allegedly by a Romanian immigrant, sparked a backlash against immigrants. 'There has been an increase in crime by immigrants - to ignore that would be false political correctness,' said Touadi. 'But how can the government focus only on them when four regions in southern Italy are controlled by the mafia?'The mafia, in turn, has become an enthusiastic employer of illegal migrants, using them to sell pirated CDs, fake Prada bags and cocaine.Touradi said the demonstration for Guibre in Milan brought together second generation Italians from different origins and religions for the first time. 'They will now look for a political role,' he said. 'Their voice enriches Italian culture.'Pushing Italy towards multiculturalism may not, however, win over Italy's politicians, he warned. 'After the 7/7 bombings in London, politicians claimed the UK was paying for being too tolerant.' For Touadi, a compromise is in order. 'We need to prevent communities becoming too isolated. In Rome we worked to stop Chinatown becoming wall-to-wall Chinese stores, leaving room for the old Roman shops like the bakery.'", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "Mafia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Black MP Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi in warning to 'racist' Italy"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's only black MP has warned of growing racism after a surge in attacks on immigrants across the country.'Immigrants are becoming the enemy,' said Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi, 49, who was born in Congo and went to Italy in 1979. 'With an economic crisis under way, Italy has found a scapegoat to blame its woes on.'Touadi, a member of the opposition Values party, spoke out after a spate of assaults on immigrants. In Milan last month Abdul William Guibre, 19, originally from Burkina Faso, was beaten to death in an attack which made headlines across Italy. After accusing Guibre of stealing a packet of biscuits, a bar owner and his son called him a 'dirty black' and set on him with a metal pole.A Senegalese man selling handbags in a Milan street market was beaten with a baseball bat after stallholders reportedly accused him of 'stealing work from Italians'. Outside Naples, six African migrants were shot dead recently by the local mafia, while in Rome a Chinese immigrant was beaten up by boys as young as 15. A Somalian-born woman claimed that at Rome's Ciampino airport she was strip-searched and verbally abused when going through customs. The government's response to the alleged airport incident was swift. The Interior Minister, Roberto Maroni, said he would personally sue the woman for lying. 'Between her version and that of the police I would have no doubt about believing the police,' said Senate leader Maurizio Gasparri.The attacks have come as Italy begins to come to terms with a new generation of black Italians, born to African immigrants who began to arrive in greater numbers towards the end of the 1980s. Milan residents expressed astonishment to reporters when the young blacks who demonstrated after Guibre's murder shouted slogans in thick Milan accents.One emerging black Italian hero making a name in Milan is 18-year-old Mario Balotelli, tipped by many as a future star of the national football team. Born in Palermo to Ghanaian immigrants, Balotelli is on the books of Inter Milan, champions of Serie A, and is one of the first role models for black Italians. Last week he scored two goals for the Italian under-21 side in a 3-1 victory over Israel.'There are now Italians here with non-Italian horizons and this is our future,' said Touadi. For the MP, who forged a career in journalism and local politics in Rome before entering parliament this year, the rising number of incidents is linked to the increasingly strident tone of Maroni's party, the anti-immigrant Northern League, which is a linchpin in Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.'The League is pushing discrimination, separation and xenophobia and dragging the government, and with it Italy, towards the systematic violation of human rights,' he said, citing proposals tabled this month by the party which call for the expulsion of legal immigrants who commit a certain number of offences, restrictions on mixed marriages and a new obligation on doctors to report illegal immigrants in their care. Previous moves to expel vagrant Romanians and jail illegal immigrants were challenged last week by the EU.'For the League, the real problem is not illegal immigration, it's immigration. They need to stop while there is still time,' said Touadi. With legal immigrant numbers rising 17 per cent last year to 3.6 million, Touadi said the spectre of fascism was returning to haunt Italy. 'We've seen Rome taxi drivers chanting \"Duce, Duce\" at the town hall when the new right-wing mayor was elected this year and now fans with swastikas are following the national football team. Italy will need millions of immigrants to maintain its workforce if birth rates continue to be low, and entire sectors of the economy, like hotels and agriculture, would go under now without them, but the government prefers demagoguery.'For Touadi, Italians are being led astray by their leaders. 'Italians are better than this, starting from the Catholic tradition of giving support, to the constitution, which emerged from fascism to focus on individual rights, to Italy's own history of emigration.'The brutal murder of an Italian woman in a Rome back street last year, allegedly by a Romanian immigrant, sparked a backlash against immigrants. 'There has been an increase in crime by immigrants - to ignore that would be false political correctness,' said Touadi. 'But how can the government focus only on them when four regions in southern Italy are controlled by the mafia?'The mafia, in turn, has become an enthusiastic employer of illegal migrants, using them to sell pirated CDs, fake Prada bags and cocaine.Touradi said the demonstration for Guibre in Milan brought together second generation Italians from different origins and religions for the first time. 'They will now look for a political role,' he said. 'Their voice enriches Italian culture.'Pushing Italy towards multiculturalism may not, however, win over Italy's politicians, he warned. 'After the 7/7 bombings in London, politicians claimed the UK was paying for being too tolerant.' For Touadi, a compromise is in order. 'We need to prevent communities becoming too isolated. In Rome we worked to stop Chinatown becoming wall-to-wall Chinese stores, leaving room for the old Roman shops like the bakery.'", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "Mafia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Black MP Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi in warning to 'racist' Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-16T11:45:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Almost 100 alleged Cosa Nostra \"godfathers\" and rank-and-file mobsters were arrested today in an operation that Italy's chief anti-mafia prosecutor said had smashed an attempt to reconstitute the crime syndicate's \"high command\".More than 1,200 paramilitary carabinieri took part in the raids, which included operations in the sedate, prosperous region of Tuscany. Helicopter and dog-handling units were also used as part of Operation Perseus \u2013 an allusion to the hero of Greek mythology who decapitated the gorgon Medusa.Pietro Grasso, the head of the national anti-mafia prosecution service, said an extensive operation in June 2006 had brought the Cosa Nostra \"to its knees\".\"With Operation Perseus, we have stopped it from rising up again, by cutting off all the strategic, thinking heads of a new command structure that was meant to have deliberated, as in the past, on serious matters.\"What sort of \"serious matters\" the new body was being set up to decide is not yet clear. Little has been heard of Cosa Nostra's top decision-making body, known as the Provincial Commission, since the early 1990s when the Sicilian mafia embarked on a full-scale war of terror aimed at the Italian state. Under the leadership of Salvatore \"Tot\u00f2\" Riina, known as The Animal, the Cosa Nostra assassinated the country's two most expert anti-mafia prosecutors and bombed targets on the mainland.The other unresolved issue is who was intended to lead the new provincial commission. One Italian media report today quoted an investigator as saying the inquiry that led to the raids had revealed the existence of a \"tough and dangerous conflict\" within Cosa Nostra over the appointment.The last undisputed capo di tutti i capi or \"boss of bosses\" was Bernardo Provenzano, arrested two years ago. The most senior mobster still at large is thought by investigators to be 46-year-old Matteo Messina Denaro, the so-called \"playboy Godfather\", who has a reputation for living life in the fast lane. But Messina Denaro is from Trapani, outside the province of Palermo from which all the mafia's previous leaders have been recruited.Residents in some areas of Palermo, the regional capital, and of at least two nearby towns woke up this morning to find themselves under virtual siege by heavily armed carabinieri. One said the scenes recalled those of 20-odd years ago when prosecutors ordered police into action on the basis of the first disclosures made by so-called 'pentiti' (mafiosi who start to collaborate with police).On this occasion, however, the key evidence was said by investigators to have come, not from supergrasses, but listening devices.Several hundred searches were carried. Among the charges levelled at the 99 alleged mafiosi arrested this morning were extortion, arms trafficking and drugs trafficking.It was widely believed that Cosa Nostra had been forced by rival Italian mafia groups to take a subsidiary role in the import of narcotics, and particularly cocaine. But evidence gathered during the investigation reportedly suggested that the Sicilian mafia remained active in international trafficking.", "tags": ["Italy", "Mafia", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "99 suspects held in orchestrated mafia raids across Italy"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's only black MP has warned of growing racism after a surge in attacks on immigrants across the country.'Immigrants are becoming the enemy,' said Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi, 49, who was born in Congo and went to Italy in 1979. 'With an economic crisis under way, Italy has found a scapegoat to blame its woes on.'Touadi, a member of the opposition Values party, spoke out after a spate of assaults on immigrants. In Milan last month Abdul William Guibre, 19, originally from Burkina Faso, was beaten to death in an attack which made headlines across Italy. After accusing Guibre of stealing a packet of biscuits, a bar owner and his son called him a 'dirty black' and set on him with a metal pole.A Senegalese man selling handbags in a Milan street market was beaten with a baseball bat after stallholders reportedly accused him of 'stealing work from Italians'. Outside Naples, six African migrants were shot dead recently by the local mafia, while in Rome a Chinese immigrant was beaten up by boys as young as 15. A Somalian-born woman claimed that at Rome's Ciampino airport she was strip-searched and verbally abused when going through customs. The government's response to the alleged airport incident was swift. The Interior Minister, Roberto Maroni, said he would personally sue the woman for lying. 'Between her version and that of the police I would have no doubt about believing the police,' said Senate leader Maurizio Gasparri.The attacks have come as Italy begins to come to terms with a new generation of black Italians, born to African immigrants who began to arrive in greater numbers towards the end of the 1980s. Milan residents expressed astonishment to reporters when the young blacks who demonstrated after Guibre's murder shouted slogans in thick Milan accents.One emerging black Italian hero making a name in Milan is 18-year-old Mario Balotelli, tipped by many as a future star of the national football team. Born in Palermo to Ghanaian immigrants, Balotelli is on the books of Inter Milan, champions of Serie A, and is one of the first role models for black Italians. Last week he scored two goals for the Italian under-21 side in a 3-1 victory over Israel.'There are now Italians here with non-Italian horizons and this is our future,' said Touadi. For the MP, who forged a career in journalism and local politics in Rome before entering parliament this year, the rising number of incidents is linked to the increasingly strident tone of Maroni's party, the anti-immigrant Northern League, which is a linchpin in Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.'The League is pushing discrimination, separation and xenophobia and dragging the government, and with it Italy, towards the systematic violation of human rights,' he said, citing proposals tabled this month by the party which call for the expulsion of legal immigrants who commit a certain number of offences, restrictions on mixed marriages and a new obligation on doctors to report illegal immigrants in their care. Previous moves to expel vagrant Romanians and jail illegal immigrants were challenged last week by the EU.'For the League, the real problem is not illegal immigration, it's immigration. They need to stop while there is still time,' said Touadi. With legal immigrant numbers rising 17 per cent last year to 3.6 million, Touadi said the spectre of fascism was returning to haunt Italy. 'We've seen Rome taxi drivers chanting \"Duce, Duce\" at the town hall when the new right-wing mayor was elected this year and now fans with swastikas are following the national football team. Italy will need millions of immigrants to maintain its workforce if birth rates continue to be low, and entire sectors of the economy, like hotels and agriculture, would go under now without them, but the government prefers demagoguery.'For Touadi, Italians are being led astray by their leaders. 'Italians are better than this, starting from the Catholic tradition of giving support, to the constitution, which emerged from fascism to focus on individual rights, to Italy's own history of emigration.'The brutal murder of an Italian woman in a Rome back street last year, allegedly by a Romanian immigrant, sparked a backlash against immigrants. 'There has been an increase in crime by immigrants - to ignore that would be false political correctness,' said Touadi. 'But how can the government focus only on them when four regions in southern Italy are controlled by the mafia?'The mafia, in turn, has become an enthusiastic employer of illegal migrants, using them to sell pirated CDs, fake Prada bags and cocaine.Touradi said the demonstration for Guibre in Milan brought together second generation Italians from different origins and religions for the first time. 'They will now look for a political role,' he said. 'Their voice enriches Italian culture.'Pushing Italy towards multiculturalism may not, however, win over Italy's politicians, he warned. 'After the 7/7 bombings in London, politicians claimed the UK was paying for being too tolerant.' For Touadi, a compromise is in order. 'We need to prevent communities becoming too isolated. In Rome we worked to stop Chinatown becoming wall-to-wall Chinese stores, leaving room for the old Roman shops like the bakery.'", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "Mafia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Black MP Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi in warning to 'racist' Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-16T11:45:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Almost 100 alleged Cosa Nostra \"godfathers\" and rank-and-file mobsters were arrested today in an operation that Italy's chief anti-mafia prosecutor said had smashed an attempt to reconstitute the crime syndicate's \"high command\".More than 1,200 paramilitary carabinieri took part in the raids, which included operations in the sedate, prosperous region of Tuscany. Helicopter and dog-handling units were also used as part of Operation Perseus \u2013 an allusion to the hero of Greek mythology who decapitated the gorgon Medusa.Pietro Grasso, the head of the national anti-mafia prosecution service, said an extensive operation in June 2006 had brought the Cosa Nostra \"to its knees\".\"With Operation Perseus, we have stopped it from rising up again, by cutting off all the strategic, thinking heads of a new command structure that was meant to have deliberated, as in the past, on serious matters.\"What sort of \"serious matters\" the new body was being set up to decide is not yet clear. Little has been heard of Cosa Nostra's top decision-making body, known as the Provincial Commission, since the early 1990s when the Sicilian mafia embarked on a full-scale war of terror aimed at the Italian state. Under the leadership of Salvatore \"Tot\u00f2\" Riina, known as The Animal, the Cosa Nostra assassinated the country's two most expert anti-mafia prosecutors and bombed targets on the mainland.The other unresolved issue is who was intended to lead the new provincial commission. One Italian media report today quoted an investigator as saying the inquiry that led to the raids had revealed the existence of a \"tough and dangerous conflict\" within Cosa Nostra over the appointment.The last undisputed capo di tutti i capi or \"boss of bosses\" was Bernardo Provenzano, arrested two years ago. The most senior mobster still at large is thought by investigators to be 46-year-old Matteo Messina Denaro, the so-called \"playboy Godfather\", who has a reputation for living life in the fast lane. But Messina Denaro is from Trapani, outside the province of Palermo from which all the mafia's previous leaders have been recruited.Residents in some areas of Palermo, the regional capital, and of at least two nearby towns woke up this morning to find themselves under virtual siege by heavily armed carabinieri. One said the scenes recalled those of 20-odd years ago when prosecutors ordered police into action on the basis of the first disclosures made by so-called 'pentiti' (mafiosi who start to collaborate with police).On this occasion, however, the key evidence was said by investigators to have come, not from supergrasses, but listening devices.Several hundred searches were carried. Among the charges levelled at the 99 alleged mafiosi arrested this morning were extortion, arms trafficking and drugs trafficking.It was widely believed that Cosa Nostra had been forced by rival Italian mafia groups to take a subsidiary role in the import of narcotics, and particularly cocaine. But evidence gathered during the investigation reportedly suggested that the Sicilian mafia remained active in international trafficking.", "tags": ["Italy", "Mafia", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "99 suspects held in orchestrated mafia raids across Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy will produce more wine this year than rival France for the first time in a decade, making it the world's biggest winemaker after an extremely good summer.The Italian farmers' association Coldiretti said the country was destined to produce 4.7bn litres of wine, up 8% on 2007 and beating France's 4.44bn litres, which is down 5% from last year. \"Italy now is the world's biggest exporter by volume, although France remains No 1 in terms of value, thanks to sales of champagne,\" said Coldiretti official Domenico Bosco. Coldiretti claimed Italy's boom year would not mean a global deluge of cheap reds or vinegary whites, insisting that the rise in output had been matched by leaps in quality. Italy has cut the area of land under cultivation, and raised to 60% the wines given certificates of quality or geographic origin.\"It is not just production that is booming, but also demand, led by amarone, brunello di montalcino, barolo, chianti and also prosecco, which is priced lower than champagne and gets more attractive in times of crisis,\" said Bosco. Hailing from northern Italy, production of bubbly prosecco has doubled in the last 15 years. Strong southern reds such as primitivo, which were once used to bulk up weaker reds, are now acquiring a status of their own. Coldiretti said that Italy was now the top exporter of wines to the US in terms of value and volume, with 30% of the market, although sales had taken a dip thanks to the weak dollar and an investigation in Italy into the mixing of unauthorised grapes into bottles of brunello di montalcino.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "Wine", "Food & drink", "World news", "Life and style", "Europe"], "title": "Salute! Italy beats France as biggest wine producer"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's only black MP has warned of growing racism after a surge in attacks on immigrants across the country.'Immigrants are becoming the enemy,' said Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi, 49, who was born in Congo and went to Italy in 1979. 'With an economic crisis under way, Italy has found a scapegoat to blame its woes on.'Touadi, a member of the opposition Values party, spoke out after a spate of assaults on immigrants. In Milan last month Abdul William Guibre, 19, originally from Burkina Faso, was beaten to death in an attack which made headlines across Italy. After accusing Guibre of stealing a packet of biscuits, a bar owner and his son called him a 'dirty black' and set on him with a metal pole.A Senegalese man selling handbags in a Milan street market was beaten with a baseball bat after stallholders reportedly accused him of 'stealing work from Italians'. Outside Naples, six African migrants were shot dead recently by the local mafia, while in Rome a Chinese immigrant was beaten up by boys as young as 15. A Somalian-born woman claimed that at Rome's Ciampino airport she was strip-searched and verbally abused when going through customs. The government's response to the alleged airport incident was swift. The Interior Minister, Roberto Maroni, said he would personally sue the woman for lying. 'Between her version and that of the police I would have no doubt about believing the police,' said Senate leader Maurizio Gasparri.The attacks have come as Italy begins to come to terms with a new generation of black Italians, born to African immigrants who began to arrive in greater numbers towards the end of the 1980s. Milan residents expressed astonishment to reporters when the young blacks who demonstrated after Guibre's murder shouted slogans in thick Milan accents.One emerging black Italian hero making a name in Milan is 18-year-old Mario Balotelli, tipped by many as a future star of the national football team. Born in Palermo to Ghanaian immigrants, Balotelli is on the books of Inter Milan, champions of Serie A, and is one of the first role models for black Italians. Last week he scored two goals for the Italian under-21 side in a 3-1 victory over Israel.'There are now Italians here with non-Italian horizons and this is our future,' said Touadi. For the MP, who forged a career in journalism and local politics in Rome before entering parliament this year, the rising number of incidents is linked to the increasingly strident tone of Maroni's party, the anti-immigrant Northern League, which is a linchpin in Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.'The League is pushing discrimination, separation and xenophobia and dragging the government, and with it Italy, towards the systematic violation of human rights,' he said, citing proposals tabled this month by the party which call for the expulsion of legal immigrants who commit a certain number of offences, restrictions on mixed marriages and a new obligation on doctors to report illegal immigrants in their care. Previous moves to expel vagrant Romanians and jail illegal immigrants were challenged last week by the EU.'For the League, the real problem is not illegal immigration, it's immigration. They need to stop while there is still time,' said Touadi. With legal immigrant numbers rising 17 per cent last year to 3.6 million, Touadi said the spectre of fascism was returning to haunt Italy. 'We've seen Rome taxi drivers chanting \"Duce, Duce\" at the town hall when the new right-wing mayor was elected this year and now fans with swastikas are following the national football team. Italy will need millions of immigrants to maintain its workforce if birth rates continue to be low, and entire sectors of the economy, like hotels and agriculture, would go under now without them, but the government prefers demagoguery.'For Touadi, Italians are being led astray by their leaders. 'Italians are better than this, starting from the Catholic tradition of giving support, to the constitution, which emerged from fascism to focus on individual rights, to Italy's own history of emigration.'The brutal murder of an Italian woman in a Rome back street last year, allegedly by a Romanian immigrant, sparked a backlash against immigrants. 'There has been an increase in crime by immigrants - to ignore that would be false political correctness,' said Touadi. 'But how can the government focus only on them when four regions in southern Italy are controlled by the mafia?'The mafia, in turn, has become an enthusiastic employer of illegal migrants, using them to sell pirated CDs, fake Prada bags and cocaine.Touradi said the demonstration for Guibre in Milan brought together second generation Italians from different origins and religions for the first time. 'They will now look for a political role,' he said. 'Their voice enriches Italian culture.'Pushing Italy towards multiculturalism may not, however, win over Italy's politicians, he warned. 'After the 7/7 bombings in London, politicians claimed the UK was paying for being too tolerant.' For Touadi, a compromise is in order. 'We need to prevent communities becoming too isolated. In Rome we worked to stop Chinatown becoming wall-to-wall Chinese stores, leaving room for the old Roman shops like the bakery.'", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "Mafia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Black MP Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi in warning to 'racist' Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-16T11:45:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Almost 100 alleged Cosa Nostra \"godfathers\" and rank-and-file mobsters were arrested today in an operation that Italy's chief anti-mafia prosecutor said had smashed an attempt to reconstitute the crime syndicate's \"high command\".More than 1,200 paramilitary carabinieri took part in the raids, which included operations in the sedate, prosperous region of Tuscany. Helicopter and dog-handling units were also used as part of Operation Perseus \u2013 an allusion to the hero of Greek mythology who decapitated the gorgon Medusa.Pietro Grasso, the head of the national anti-mafia prosecution service, said an extensive operation in June 2006 had brought the Cosa Nostra \"to its knees\".\"With Operation Perseus, we have stopped it from rising up again, by cutting off all the strategic, thinking heads of a new command structure that was meant to have deliberated, as in the past, on serious matters.\"What sort of \"serious matters\" the new body was being set up to decide is not yet clear. Little has been heard of Cosa Nostra's top decision-making body, known as the Provincial Commission, since the early 1990s when the Sicilian mafia embarked on a full-scale war of terror aimed at the Italian state. Under the leadership of Salvatore \"Tot\u00f2\" Riina, known as The Animal, the Cosa Nostra assassinated the country's two most expert anti-mafia prosecutors and bombed targets on the mainland.The other unresolved issue is who was intended to lead the new provincial commission. One Italian media report today quoted an investigator as saying the inquiry that led to the raids had revealed the existence of a \"tough and dangerous conflict\" within Cosa Nostra over the appointment.The last undisputed capo di tutti i capi or \"boss of bosses\" was Bernardo Provenzano, arrested two years ago. The most senior mobster still at large is thought by investigators to be 46-year-old Matteo Messina Denaro, the so-called \"playboy Godfather\", who has a reputation for living life in the fast lane. But Messina Denaro is from Trapani, outside the province of Palermo from which all the mafia's previous leaders have been recruited.Residents in some areas of Palermo, the regional capital, and of at least two nearby towns woke up this morning to find themselves under virtual siege by heavily armed carabinieri. One said the scenes recalled those of 20-odd years ago when prosecutors ordered police into action on the basis of the first disclosures made by so-called 'pentiti' (mafiosi who start to collaborate with police).On this occasion, however, the key evidence was said by investigators to have come, not from supergrasses, but listening devices.Several hundred searches were carried. Among the charges levelled at the 99 alleged mafiosi arrested this morning were extortion, arms trafficking and drugs trafficking.It was widely believed that Cosa Nostra had been forced by rival Italian mafia groups to take a subsidiary role in the import of narcotics, and particularly cocaine. But evidence gathered during the investigation reportedly suggested that the Sicilian mafia remained active in international trafficking.", "tags": ["Italy", "Mafia", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "99 suspects held in orchestrated mafia raids across Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy will produce more wine this year than rival France for the first time in a decade, making it the world's biggest winemaker after an extremely good summer.The Italian farmers' association Coldiretti said the country was destined to produce 4.7bn litres of wine, up 8% on 2007 and beating France's 4.44bn litres, which is down 5% from last year. \"Italy now is the world's biggest exporter by volume, although France remains No 1 in terms of value, thanks to sales of champagne,\" said Coldiretti official Domenico Bosco. Coldiretti claimed Italy's boom year would not mean a global deluge of cheap reds or vinegary whites, insisting that the rise in output had been matched by leaps in quality. Italy has cut the area of land under cultivation, and raised to 60% the wines given certificates of quality or geographic origin.\"It is not just production that is booming, but also demand, led by amarone, brunello di montalcino, barolo, chianti and also prosecco, which is priced lower than champagne and gets more attractive in times of crisis,\" said Bosco. Hailing from northern Italy, production of bubbly prosecco has doubled in the last 15 years. Strong southern reds such as primitivo, which were once used to bulk up weaker reds, are now acquiring a status of their own. Coldiretti said that Italy was now the top exporter of wines to the US in terms of value and volume, with 30% of the market, although sales had taken a dip thanks to the weak dollar and an investigation in Italy into the mixing of unauthorised grapes into bottles of brunello di montalcino.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "Wine", "Food & drink", "World news", "Life and style", "Europe"], "title": "Salute! Italy beats France as biggest wine producer"},{"date": "2008-11-10T12:45:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A Ryanair jet carrying 166 passengers today made an emergency landing at Rome Ciampino airport after birds were sucked into its engines.Two cabin crew and five passengers were taken to hospital with minor injuries after evacuating the aircraft via emergency chutes and the stairs. Ryanair said flight FR4102 from Frankfurt to Ciampino had suffered \"multiple bird strikes\" as it approached the airport at 7.56am (6.56am GMT). The left-hand landing gear had suffered \"substantial damage\", leaving the Boeing 737-800 jet stranded on the edge of the runway.\"As a result, Rome Ciampino airport has been closed to all flights including Ryanair's until sometime late this afternoon,\" Ryanair said. \"The aircraft is still being examined by Ryanair engineers and the Italian aviation authority.\" The authority said the jet overshot the runway during the landing and \"exited beyond the threshold\" of the airstrip.The airline said passengers had not been allowed to access their baggage while the plane was being examined. Bird strikes are rare in commercial aviation but can cause significant damage.This morning's incident is the second emergency landing by a Ryanair plane in less than three months. In August, a flight carrying 168 passengers lost cabin pressure over France, forcing an emergency descent to Limoges international airport.", "tags": ["Ryanair", "Italy", "Airline industry", "World news", "Travel", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Bird strike forces Ryanair jet into emergency landing in Italy"},{"date": "2008-10-16T13:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is tired of playing the ugly duckling in Europe. The time for daredevil tactics and unreliable leadership has gone. Today, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition appear both less maverick and much more aware of international and European rules. There was a time when the financial markets were very suspicious about the anti-EU approach taken by previous centre-right governments, but no one can deny that the treasury minister Giulio Tremonti is being very careful to avoid increasing Italy's enormous public debt. Moreover, his opinions on how to deal with the financial crisis by working with the rest of the EU are being taken seriously.Berlusconi, after having tried to create a European fund to save struggling banks, successfully persuaded the EU to coordinate its response to the crisis. He also pointed out how important it was to take action on Euribor inter-bank lending rates in order to build banks' confidence. Tremonti 's financial plan promises big results for a small outlay. In fact, not a single euro has yet been allocated to it from the Italian budget. Though he says the government could intervene to bail out struggling banks, Tremonti has merely promised to guarantee bond issues made by banks during 2009 and for the next five years. The Bank of Italy will also exchange portfolio bonds with lower-quality bonds owned by other banks. Italy wants to send a reassuring message to Italian savers: the government is guaranteeing all deposit accounts during 2009, thereby bolstering the interbank fund guarantee. With these steps, Berlusconi and Tremonti have shown their ability to respond quickly to the crisis without leaving the market and the Bank of Italy in limbo.However, Berlusconi is conscious that the most important game is played outside national borders. Right now, at the European Council, he is committed in renegotiating European commission environmental policy. The cuts in CO2 emissions that Europe is demanding risk crippling Italian industrial output.Italy wants Europe to support its own economies as well as ensuring its exports remain competitive. Tremonti has been trying to convince the European Parliament of the need to issue public debt bonds (Eurobonds) to finance big European infrastructure projects. The rest of the Union tends to favour domestic solutions. Italy's willingness to work with other European countries is a new and welcome development.The G8 will meet in Italy next year. The aim of the Italian presidency will be to draw in five emerging economies \u2013 South Africa, India, China, Mexico and Brazil \u2013 with the aim of rewriting international monetary exchange rules. A new agreement in the Bretton Woods tradition would take into account the rapid globalisation of the last decade. Italy is thinking big inside a new and less bureaucratic Europe. Berlusconi can already count on the support of the majority of Italians. Now he needs to win the trust of the rest of the EU.", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Paolo Messa: The banking crisis has brought Silvio Berlusconi back to the negotiating table"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The four bottles were identical except for their labels; scraps of paper onto which someone had scrawled A, B, C and D in blue Biro. Actually, that's not quite true; a more experienced eye than mine would have been able to discern the subtle differences in the shades of colour which distinguished their contents. But to me they all looked the same pale yellowy green. Ten of us were sitting around a long wooden table in a rustic restaurant called the Madre Tierra in the village of Francavilla d'Ete. 'We have four olive oils for you to taste,' Ian said. 'One comes from Tuscany, one is produced locally here in Marche,' - we learned to pronounce it mar-kay - 'Bob and I made one ourselves from our own olives, and one was bought in an Aldi supermarket. All you have to do is guess which is which.' One by one, we poured little pools of the peppery oils onto our plates and dunked chunks of thick, crusty, home-made bread into them before popping them into our mouths.'This is our local,' explained Ian. 'It's owned and run by five lads with a lot of help from their mums.' Olive oil tasting over, the dishes came thick and fast: smoked prosciutto, a bean and corn salad, crostini smeared with olive paste, penne with smoked sausage, cream and black truffles, and jugs of red wine from the local cantina. If you want to get a taste of the Marche region of Italy, then a self-styled Olive Discovery Break like this is as good a way as any; not that you have to wait for the olive harvest to sample the abundance of excellent food and wine to be enjoyed throughout the year.Four years ago Ian, a projects manager working in telecoms, and his partner, Bob, working in human resources, gave up their lives in Stoke Newington, north London, and staked everything they owned on converting an old ramshackle ruin of a farmhouse into luxurious holiday flats. The result is Casal dei Fichi in Francavilla d'Ete. It has six self-catering flats, all of which are beautifully furnished and come with fitted kitchens, private gardens and a swimming pool. It stands in landscaped grounds an hour by car from Ancona airport. The Adriatic coast is 30 minutes in one direction and the Sibillini mountains 45 minutes in the other. 'But it was the view that sold it to us,' Bob told me on my first night, and next morning I saw why. I stepped out of my flat and straight into a landscape by a Renaissance painter.A patchwork of green and ploughed fields fell away across a landscape of valleys dotted with forests which had turned to autumnal shades of red and gold. Farmhouses built of honey-coloured brick stood in lonely isolation and, in the distance, hills were crowned with medieval fortress towns whose campaniles and turrets poked up into the pale blue sky, as the faint echo of church bells hung in the chill, early morning air.It's almost impossible not to compare the Marche with Tuscany, which lies on Italy's opposite coastline. I found the Marche to be more rural and, in its own way, just as beautiful. But for me the big difference is that it's less visited and certainly less expensive. I didn't see a single Chelsea tractor, and the only tractors I did see were caked in clay and ploughing fields. November sees the height of the olive harvest which, depending on the weather, can last until Christmas. Bob and Ian devised this Olive Break to encourage visitors to come to the Marche in the low season and to make the most of the seasonal specialities for which the region is renowned. Next morning, we headed to a local food market in the nearby coastal town of Numana. The centrepiece was the pescheria, where the day's catch was being fought over by widows dressed in black and their younger Gucci-and-Prada-clad counterparts. The surrounding narrow streets were lined with market stalls selling colourful mounds of fruit, vegetables and nuts. And fast-food stalls sold focaccia sandwiches of roast suckling pig encased in hard shells of crisp, tawny crackling.Lunch was at La Torre, a modern, stylish restaurant that wouldn't have looked out of place in Notting Hill. Instead, it was perched on top of a steep, craggy cliff face and looked out over the Adriatic coastline. The starter quickly became a talking point. The vongole (clams) were recognisable enough, but we all agreed no one had ever seen anything quite like the sea monster that accompanied it. It resembled a cross between a langoustine and the creature from the Black Lagoon, but was tasty enough for all that. It was followed by salt-baked sea bass and enjoyed with a few bottles of the local Castelverde.That night we dined in the medieval walled town of Loro Piceno. Steep, narrow, paved streets wound their way to the front door of the Taverna Loro. The usual antipasto was followed by potato and spinach soup, tagliatelle with oxtail, and then a main course of roast guinea fowl with chestnuts and chicory, which was accompanied by the house speciality, cremini fritti fatti a casa. 'Well, what do you think of it?' Bob asked. Then, registering my look of incredulity, he confirmed my suspicions. 'Yep, it's deep-fried custard.'Sunday didn't turn out to be much of a day of rest; Ian and Bob put us to work. At Il Maniero, a restaurant which doubles as an art school, and under the watchful eye of Guida, the resident chef, we were taught how to de-bone legs of lamb, make gnocchi and prepare a five-course Sunday lunch, Marche-style. Then, in the afternoon, it was back to Casal dei Fichi to help Ian and Bob harvest their olives for our visit to the olive press the next day.Our last meal together was in Urbisaglia, another spectacular hilltop fortress town. We dined at Le Logge, which stood in an elegant palazzo that had been restored in the early 19th century. Baked goat's cheese wrapped in thin slices of ham was followed by spinach pat\u00e9, ravioli in pumpkin sauce, paccheri pasta with gorgonzola and hazelnuts and, finally, fried pork in saba, a type of vinegar not dissimilar to balsamic. A liquidy lemon sorbet, drunk from a champagne flute, was the perfect finishing touch. Naturally, local wines were also a prominent feature of the weekend, and one of the joys of the Marche is that it produces a host of fine wines that are little known outside the region. Discovering new ones was always interesting, and we were ably assisted in our quest by Ian and Bob, who had earlier arranged a tasting for us at the Umani Ronchi winery in Ancona. As Bob swirled a particularly fine Lacrima Di Moro D'Alba Superiore around the bowl of his crystal goblet, I asked him: 'So, what do you miss most about Stoke Newington?' He reflected for the briefest of moments before replying: 'Only nipping out for a curry.'On our last morning we were guests of honour on a tour of the local olive press. Olives were being tipped into vast vats where they were washed before being crushed under slowly turning stone wheels, which produced a paste which was then pressed to extract the precious oil. 'By the way,' Ian shouted above the din of the grinding wheels, 'how did you do on the olive tasting on the first night?' Actually, not that well. I had got them all wrong. I had confused the local one with the Tuscan olive oil that sells in Selfridges for \u00a326 per half-litre but, worst of all, I had marked down his and Bob's home-made olive oil as the one from Aldi. But because he and Bob had looked after us so well, I simply didn't have the heart to tell him.Casal dei Fichi (00 39 0734 959018; www.casaldeifichi.com) offers six one- and two-bedroom apartments with fully equipped kitchens. Weekly rates range from \u00a3350 in low season to \u00a3575 in high season. The four-day Olive Discovery break cost \u00a3445, inclusive of transfers from Ancona airport, all meals and wine with lunch and dinner, visits to local markets and olive press and three nights' accommodation. Ryanair flies from Stansted to Ancona (www.ryanair.com).", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Hotels", "Italy holidays", "Restaurants", "Umbria holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "A taste of Italy at harvest time"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's only black MP has warned of growing racism after a surge in attacks on immigrants across the country.'Immigrants are becoming the enemy,' said Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi, 49, who was born in Congo and went to Italy in 1979. 'With an economic crisis under way, Italy has found a scapegoat to blame its woes on.'Touadi, a member of the opposition Values party, spoke out after a spate of assaults on immigrants. In Milan last month Abdul William Guibre, 19, originally from Burkina Faso, was beaten to death in an attack which made headlines across Italy. After accusing Guibre of stealing a packet of biscuits, a bar owner and his son called him a 'dirty black' and set on him with a metal pole.A Senegalese man selling handbags in a Milan street market was beaten with a baseball bat after stallholders reportedly accused him of 'stealing work from Italians'. Outside Naples, six African migrants were shot dead recently by the local mafia, while in Rome a Chinese immigrant was beaten up by boys as young as 15. A Somalian-born woman claimed that at Rome's Ciampino airport she was strip-searched and verbally abused when going through customs. The government's response to the alleged airport incident was swift. The Interior Minister, Roberto Maroni, said he would personally sue the woman for lying. 'Between her version and that of the police I would have no doubt about believing the police,' said Senate leader Maurizio Gasparri.The attacks have come as Italy begins to come to terms with a new generation of black Italians, born to African immigrants who began to arrive in greater numbers towards the end of the 1980s. Milan residents expressed astonishment to reporters when the young blacks who demonstrated after Guibre's murder shouted slogans in thick Milan accents.One emerging black Italian hero making a name in Milan is 18-year-old Mario Balotelli, tipped by many as a future star of the national football team. Born in Palermo to Ghanaian immigrants, Balotelli is on the books of Inter Milan, champions of Serie A, and is one of the first role models for black Italians. Last week he scored two goals for the Italian under-21 side in a 3-1 victory over Israel.'There are now Italians here with non-Italian horizons and this is our future,' said Touadi. For the MP, who forged a career in journalism and local politics in Rome before entering parliament this year, the rising number of incidents is linked to the increasingly strident tone of Maroni's party, the anti-immigrant Northern League, which is a linchpin in Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.'The League is pushing discrimination, separation and xenophobia and dragging the government, and with it Italy, towards the systematic violation of human rights,' he said, citing proposals tabled this month by the party which call for the expulsion of legal immigrants who commit a certain number of offences, restrictions on mixed marriages and a new obligation on doctors to report illegal immigrants in their care. Previous moves to expel vagrant Romanians and jail illegal immigrants were challenged last week by the EU.'For the League, the real problem is not illegal immigration, it's immigration. They need to stop while there is still time,' said Touadi. With legal immigrant numbers rising 17 per cent last year to 3.6 million, Touadi said the spectre of fascism was returning to haunt Italy. 'We've seen Rome taxi drivers chanting \"Duce, Duce\" at the town hall when the new right-wing mayor was elected this year and now fans with swastikas are following the national football team. Italy will need millions of immigrants to maintain its workforce if birth rates continue to be low, and entire sectors of the economy, like hotels and agriculture, would go under now without them, but the government prefers demagoguery.'For Touadi, Italians are being led astray by their leaders. 'Italians are better than this, starting from the Catholic tradition of giving support, to the constitution, which emerged from fascism to focus on individual rights, to Italy's own history of emigration.'The brutal murder of an Italian woman in a Rome back street last year, allegedly by a Romanian immigrant, sparked a backlash against immigrants. 'There has been an increase in crime by immigrants - to ignore that would be false political correctness,' said Touadi. 'But how can the government focus only on them when four regions in southern Italy are controlled by the mafia?'The mafia, in turn, has become an enthusiastic employer of illegal migrants, using them to sell pirated CDs, fake Prada bags and cocaine.Touradi said the demonstration for Guibre in Milan brought together second generation Italians from different origins and religions for the first time. 'They will now look for a political role,' he said. 'Their voice enriches Italian culture.'Pushing Italy towards multiculturalism may not, however, win over Italy's politicians, he warned. 'After the 7/7 bombings in London, politicians claimed the UK was paying for being too tolerant.' For Touadi, a compromise is in order. 'We need to prevent communities becoming too isolated. In Rome we worked to stop Chinatown becoming wall-to-wall Chinese stores, leaving room for the old Roman shops like the bakery.'", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "Mafia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Black MP Jean-L\u00e9onard Touadi in warning to 'racist' Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-16T11:45:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Almost 100 alleged Cosa Nostra \"godfathers\" and rank-and-file mobsters were arrested today in an operation that Italy's chief anti-mafia prosecutor said had smashed an attempt to reconstitute the crime syndicate's \"high command\".More than 1,200 paramilitary carabinieri took part in the raids, which included operations in the sedate, prosperous region of Tuscany. Helicopter and dog-handling units were also used as part of Operation Perseus \u2013 an allusion to the hero of Greek mythology who decapitated the gorgon Medusa.Pietro Grasso, the head of the national anti-mafia prosecution service, said an extensive operation in June 2006 had brought the Cosa Nostra \"to its knees\".\"With Operation Perseus, we have stopped it from rising up again, by cutting off all the strategic, thinking heads of a new command structure that was meant to have deliberated, as in the past, on serious matters.\"What sort of \"serious matters\" the new body was being set up to decide is not yet clear. Little has been heard of Cosa Nostra's top decision-making body, known as the Provincial Commission, since the early 1990s when the Sicilian mafia embarked on a full-scale war of terror aimed at the Italian state. Under the leadership of Salvatore \"Tot\u00f2\" Riina, known as The Animal, the Cosa Nostra assassinated the country's two most expert anti-mafia prosecutors and bombed targets on the mainland.The other unresolved issue is who was intended to lead the new provincial commission. One Italian media report today quoted an investigator as saying the inquiry that led to the raids had revealed the existence of a \"tough and dangerous conflict\" within Cosa Nostra over the appointment.The last undisputed capo di tutti i capi or \"boss of bosses\" was Bernardo Provenzano, arrested two years ago. The most senior mobster still at large is thought by investigators to be 46-year-old Matteo Messina Denaro, the so-called \"playboy Godfather\", who has a reputation for living life in the fast lane. But Messina Denaro is from Trapani, outside the province of Palermo from which all the mafia's previous leaders have been recruited.Residents in some areas of Palermo, the regional capital, and of at least two nearby towns woke up this morning to find themselves under virtual siege by heavily armed carabinieri. One said the scenes recalled those of 20-odd years ago when prosecutors ordered police into action on the basis of the first disclosures made by so-called 'pentiti' (mafiosi who start to collaborate with police).On this occasion, however, the key evidence was said by investigators to have come, not from supergrasses, but listening devices.Several hundred searches were carried. Among the charges levelled at the 99 alleged mafiosi arrested this morning were extortion, arms trafficking and drugs trafficking.It was widely believed that Cosa Nostra had been forced by rival Italian mafia groups to take a subsidiary role in the import of narcotics, and particularly cocaine. But evidence gathered during the investigation reportedly suggested that the Sicilian mafia remained active in international trafficking.", "tags": ["Italy", "Mafia", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "99 suspects held in orchestrated mafia raids across Italy"},{"date": "2008-12-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy will produce more wine this year than rival France for the first time in a decade, making it the world's biggest winemaker after an extremely good summer.The Italian farmers' association Coldiretti said the country was destined to produce 4.7bn litres of wine, up 8% on 2007 and beating France's 4.44bn litres, which is down 5% from last year. \"Italy now is the world's biggest exporter by volume, although France remains No 1 in terms of value, thanks to sales of champagne,\" said Coldiretti official Domenico Bosco. Coldiretti claimed Italy's boom year would not mean a global deluge of cheap reds or vinegary whites, insisting that the rise in output had been matched by leaps in quality. Italy has cut the area of land under cultivation, and raised to 60% the wines given certificates of quality or geographic origin.\"It is not just production that is booming, but also demand, led by amarone, brunello di montalcino, barolo, chianti and also prosecco, which is priced lower than champagne and gets more attractive in times of crisis,\" said Bosco. Hailing from northern Italy, production of bubbly prosecco has doubled in the last 15 years. Strong southern reds such as primitivo, which were once used to bulk up weaker reds, are now acquiring a status of their own. Coldiretti said that Italy was now the top exporter of wines to the US in terms of value and volume, with 30% of the market, although sales had taken a dip thanks to the weak dollar and an investigation in Italy into the mixing of unauthorised grapes into bottles of brunello di montalcino.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "Wine", "Food & drink", "World news", "Life and style", "Europe"], "title": "Salute! Italy beats France as biggest wine producer"},{"date": "2008-11-10T12:45:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A Ryanair jet carrying 166 passengers today made an emergency landing at Rome Ciampino airport after birds were sucked into its engines.Two cabin crew and five passengers were taken to hospital with minor injuries after evacuating the aircraft via emergency chutes and the stairs. Ryanair said flight FR4102 from Frankfurt to Ciampino had suffered \"multiple bird strikes\" as it approached the airport at 7.56am (6.56am GMT). The left-hand landing gear had suffered \"substantial damage\", leaving the Boeing 737-800 jet stranded on the edge of the runway.\"As a result, Rome Ciampino airport has been closed to all flights including Ryanair's until sometime late this afternoon,\" Ryanair said. \"The aircraft is still being examined by Ryanair engineers and the Italian aviation authority.\" The authority said the jet overshot the runway during the landing and \"exited beyond the threshold\" of the airstrip.The airline said passengers had not been allowed to access their baggage while the plane was being examined. Bird strikes are rare in commercial aviation but can cause significant damage.This morning's incident is the second emergency landing by a Ryanair plane in less than three months. In August, a flight carrying 168 passengers lost cabin pressure over France, forcing an emergency descent to Limoges international airport.", "tags": ["Ryanair", "Italy", "Airline industry", "World news", "Travel", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Bird strike forces Ryanair jet into emergency landing in Italy"},{"date": "2008-11-15T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Earlier this year, many Italians were puffing out their chests as Turin-born Carla Bruni became Madame Nicolas Sarkozy. Comparisons were drawn with Catherine de' Medici, who in effect ruled Italy's northern neighbour for 30 years after the death of her husband, Henry II.But this week Bruni completed her slide from heroine to hate figure, at least in the eyes of more conservative former compatriots, by telling Journal du Dimanche that Silvio Berlusconi's description of US president-elect Barack Obama as \"suntanned\" had made her glad to be French. Prominent figures expressed disgust, including the former head of state Francesco Cossiga. \"We Italians too are glad,\" he said, \"that Mrs Sarkozy is no longer Italian.\"However, a member of Berlusconi's governing majority has queried whether Bruni is, in fact, as French as she claims. Giving up Italian citizenship is not easy.Guglielmo Picchi of the rightwing Freedom People movement has tabled a question for the interior minister, asking \"which procedures she is meant to have followed for the renunciation [of her Italian nationality]\".Disillusion with the model-turned-singer set in last month when it emerged that she had intervened to block the extradition from France of a former Red Brigades terrorist, Marina Petrella, who faces life imprisonment in Italy. Petrella's health deteriorated sharply when she learned she could be sent back. In August, she was released from jail and admitted to a Paris hospital. Carla Bruni was reported to have gone to her bedside to break the news of her reprieve in person.Blunter comments than Cossiga's have been peppering the blogosphere ever since her criticism of Berlusconi. \"Keep her for good - and give us back the Mona Lisa,\" wrote one. \"Why does she have to be ashamed of 60 million people instead of one?\" asked another. Her rebuke will do her husband no harm with the incoming US president, and may be seen as confirmation that relations between Sarkozy and the Italian leader are cooling.Meanwhile, the daily Italia Oggi said that perhaps both Bruni's and Berlusconi's lack of sensitivity suggested Italians might be pioneering a trend for \"extreme diplomacy\" - the international relations equivalent of no-limits sports.", "tags": ["Italy", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Love turns to loathing after Carla snubs Italy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's central objective as Italian prime minister has long appeared to be dazzlingly and shamelessly obvious. Ever since he strode into the political vacuum created in 1993 by the simultaneous government corruption scandal on the right and the collapse of Italian communism on the left, Mr Berlusconi has used his political career and power to protect himself and his media empire from the law. During the longest of his three periods as prime minister, Mr Berlusconi not only consolidated his already strong grip on the Italian media industry - he now owns around half of it - but passed legislation granting him immunity from prosecution. Then, when that law was ruled unconstitutional, the newly re-elected Mr Berlusconi brought it back in a new guise last year and has had it successfully signed into law.Mr Berlusconi's success owes something to his own audacity and quite a lot to the deepening weakness of his opponents. The Italian left, in particular, has failed to mount an effective opposition. Yet Mr Berlusconi's latest action - the merger into his new People of Freedom bloc, completed yesterday, of his own Forza Italia party with the Allianza Nazionale which derives directly from Benito Mussolini's fascist tradition - may leave a more lasting mark on Italian public life than anything else the populist tycoon has done.Unlike postwar Germany, postwar Italy never properly confronted its own fascist legacy. As a result, while neofascism has never seriously resurfaced in Germany, in Italy there were important continuities - inherited Mussolini-era laws and officials and the postwar rebirth of the renamed Fascist party among them - in spite of Italy's nominally anti-fascist public culture. Those continuities have just become stronger. It is a day of shame for Italy.Nevertheless, the AN has come a long way in 60 years. Its leader, Gianfranco Fini, has discarded the old political garments and led his party towards the centre. He has worked for more than 15 years as Mr Berlusconi's ally. He talks about the need for dialogue with Islam, denounces antisemitism, and advocates a multi-ethnic Italy - positions which Mr Berlusconi, with his populist anti-gypsy and anti-immigrant campaigns and his fondness for soft-core racism, would struggle to match.Despite its distant liberal origins, modern Italy is historically a rightwing country. Yet it is a very shocking thought that there will be one head of government among the 20 world leaders at the London economic summit this week who has now rebuilt his political base on foundations laid by fascists and who claims that the right is likely to remain in power for generations as a result.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Italy's fascist shadow"},{"date": "2009-03-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's central objective as Italian prime minister has long appeared to be dazzlingly and shamelessly obvious. Ever since he strode into the political vacuum created in 1993 by the simultaneous government corruption scandal on the right and the collapse of Italian communism on the left, Mr Berlusconi has used his political career and power to protect himself and his media empire from the law. During the longest of his three periods as prime minister, Mr Berlusconi not only consolidated his already strong grip on the Italian media industry - he now owns around half of it - but passed legislation granting him immunity from prosecution. Then, when that law was ruled unconstitutional, the newly re-elected Mr Berlusconi brought it back in a new guise last year and has had it successfully signed into law.Mr Berlusconi's success owes something to his own audacity and quite a lot to the deepening weakness of his opponents. The Italian left, in particular, has failed to mount an effective opposition. Yet Mr Berlusconi's latest action - the merger into his new People of Freedom bloc, completed yesterday, of his own Forza Italia party with the Allianza Nazionale which derives directly from Benito Mussolini's fascist tradition - may leave a more lasting mark on Italian public life than anything else the populist tycoon has done.Unlike postwar Germany, postwar Italy never properly confronted its own fascist legacy. As a result, while neofascism has never seriously resurfaced in Germany, in Italy there were important continuities - inherited Mussolini-era laws and officials and the postwar rebirth of the renamed Fascist party among them - in spite of Italy's nominally anti-fascist public culture. Those continuities have just become stronger. It is a day of shame for Italy.Nevertheless, the AN has come a long way in 60 years. Its leader, Gianfranco Fini, has discarded the old political garments and led his party towards the centre. He has worked for more than 15 years as Mr Berlusconi's ally. He talks about the need for dialogue with Islam, denounces antisemitism, and advocates a multi-ethnic Italy - positions which Mr Berlusconi, with his populist anti-gypsy and anti-immigrant campaigns and his fondness for soft-core racism, would struggle to match.Despite its distant liberal origins, modern Italy is historically a rightwing country. Yet it is a very shocking thought that there will be one head of government among the 20 world leaders at the London economic summit this week who has now rebuilt his political base on foundations laid by fascists and who claims that the right is likely to remain in power for generations as a result.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Italy's fascist shadow"},{"date": "2009-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lake Maggiore, the 54km stretch of Alpine water that provides one of northern Italy's most idyllic scenes, might better be named Lake Alessi. No fewer than four members of the eponymous design clan have set up homes along its shores. Matteo, 31, is the youngest to own a house here and the only one of the fourth generation to work full-time for the company founded by his great-grandfather, Giovanni, in 1921. Matteo's house, which he shares with his wife Daniela and their twins, Giacomo and Annalisa, sits high up on the steep west side of the lake. They moved in last year, when Matteo returned to Italy after a stint as the head of Alessi UK. Now he is in charge of trade, marketing and international development in the company's headquarters which are nearby on Lake Orta.The highly sought-after plot where Matteo and Daniela's house was built is on a south-facing tongue of land that enjoys day-long sunshine, not to mention jaw-dropping views. It was snapped up by Matteo's father, Michele, in 1993, with any one of his four children in mind. \"One of us was bound to work for the family business, which is based a few kilometres away,\" says Matteo. \"That person turned out to be me.\" In 1999, Michele and Matteo hired the services of architect Alessandro Ciapponi and together they set about designing a house that capitalised on the wonderful setting, wrapping high, sliding-glass doors around the entire house, allowing it to be flooded with light, as well as making the most of the glorious, far-reaching views of the snow-capped pre-Alps of Piedmont.From the outside, the building has a faintly Swiss chalet look to it - Switzerland starts at the northernmost tip of the lake. A wide, sloping roof crowns the building, but step inside and it's all modern, minimal cool.Matteo describes the decor as \"uncluttered\" and says that both he and Daniela hail from the \"less is more\" school of thought. The avant-garde design stable Alessi is, of course, famous for celebrating wavy, wacky forms, such as wobbly steel tableware and spidery lemon squeezers, but Matteo himself prefers geometry and linearity, at least in terms of the shape of rooms. Still, the prominent presence of two of Alessi's best-known items - Philippe Starck's kettle, which looks like a Viking helmet impaled by a lurid green relay runner's baton, and Zaha Hadid's gracefully twisting, polished, stainless-steel vase - proves that his taste runs beyond the straight or square.\"I have led my life surrounded by beautiful, stylish objects,\" says the goatee-bearded executive as he offers a tour of his sparsely furnished home. Surprisingly this is much more than just an Alessi showroom: a leathery le Corbusier chaise longue is splayed in front of the family iMac, and a Zanotta coat rack, resembling a bundle of firewood, greets you as you enter the property. These two items testify to the young Italian's unpartisan interest in quality design. But, of course, Alessi items do pop up pretty much everywhere else, since, as he says with a knowing smile: 'I have access to a very fair discount.'\u2022 Alessi is at 22 Brook Street, London W1 (020 7518 9090) and Westfield, London W1 (020 8576 6100). For more information, visit alessi.com", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Design", "Art and design"], "title": "Interiors: Alistair Duncan visits the Italian design scion Matteo Alessi's Lake Maggiore chalet"},{"date": "2009-03-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's central objective as Italian prime minister has long appeared to be dazzlingly and shamelessly obvious. Ever since he strode into the political vacuum created in 1993 by the simultaneous government corruption scandal on the right and the collapse of Italian communism on the left, Mr Berlusconi has used his political career and power to protect himself and his media empire from the law. During the longest of his three periods as prime minister, Mr Berlusconi not only consolidated his already strong grip on the Italian media industry - he now owns around half of it - but passed legislation granting him immunity from prosecution. Then, when that law was ruled unconstitutional, the newly re-elected Mr Berlusconi brought it back in a new guise last year and has had it successfully signed into law.Mr Berlusconi's success owes something to his own audacity and quite a lot to the deepening weakness of his opponents. The Italian left, in particular, has failed to mount an effective opposition. Yet Mr Berlusconi's latest action - the merger into his new People of Freedom bloc, completed yesterday, of his own Forza Italia party with the Allianza Nazionale which derives directly from Benito Mussolini's fascist tradition - may leave a more lasting mark on Italian public life than anything else the populist tycoon has done.Unlike postwar Germany, postwar Italy never properly confronted its own fascist legacy. As a result, while neofascism has never seriously resurfaced in Germany, in Italy there were important continuities - inherited Mussolini-era laws and officials and the postwar rebirth of the renamed Fascist party among them - in spite of Italy's nominally anti-fascist public culture. Those continuities have just become stronger. It is a day of shame for Italy.Nevertheless, the AN has come a long way in 60 years. Its leader, Gianfranco Fini, has discarded the old political garments and led his party towards the centre. He has worked for more than 15 years as Mr Berlusconi's ally. He talks about the need for dialogue with Islam, denounces antisemitism, and advocates a multi-ethnic Italy - positions which Mr Berlusconi, with his populist anti-gypsy and anti-immigrant campaigns and his fondness for soft-core racism, would struggle to match.Despite its distant liberal origins, modern Italy is historically a rightwing country. Yet it is a very shocking thought that there will be one head of government among the 20 world leaders at the London economic summit this week who has now rebuilt his political base on foundations laid by fascists and who claims that the right is likely to remain in power for generations as a result.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Italy's fascist shadow"},{"date": "2009-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lake Maggiore, the 54km stretch of Alpine water that provides one of northern Italy's most idyllic scenes, might better be named Lake Alessi. No fewer than four members of the eponymous design clan have set up homes along its shores. Matteo, 31, is the youngest to own a house here and the only one of the fourth generation to work full-time for the company founded by his great-grandfather, Giovanni, in 1921. Matteo's house, which he shares with his wife Daniela and their twins, Giacomo and Annalisa, sits high up on the steep west side of the lake. They moved in last year, when Matteo returned to Italy after a stint as the head of Alessi UK. Now he is in charge of trade, marketing and international development in the company's headquarters which are nearby on Lake Orta.The highly sought-after plot where Matteo and Daniela's house was built is on a south-facing tongue of land that enjoys day-long sunshine, not to mention jaw-dropping views. It was snapped up by Matteo's father, Michele, in 1993, with any one of his four children in mind. \"One of us was bound to work for the family business, which is based a few kilometres away,\" says Matteo. \"That person turned out to be me.\" In 1999, Michele and Matteo hired the services of architect Alessandro Ciapponi and together they set about designing a house that capitalised on the wonderful setting, wrapping high, sliding-glass doors around the entire house, allowing it to be flooded with light, as well as making the most of the glorious, far-reaching views of the snow-capped pre-Alps of Piedmont.From the outside, the building has a faintly Swiss chalet look to it - Switzerland starts at the northernmost tip of the lake. A wide, sloping roof crowns the building, but step inside and it's all modern, minimal cool.Matteo describes the decor as \"uncluttered\" and says that both he and Daniela hail from the \"less is more\" school of thought. The avant-garde design stable Alessi is, of course, famous for celebrating wavy, wacky forms, such as wobbly steel tableware and spidery lemon squeezers, but Matteo himself prefers geometry and linearity, at least in terms of the shape of rooms. Still, the prominent presence of two of Alessi's best-known items - Philippe Starck's kettle, which looks like a Viking helmet impaled by a lurid green relay runner's baton, and Zaha Hadid's gracefully twisting, polished, stainless-steel vase - proves that his taste runs beyond the straight or square.\"I have led my life surrounded by beautiful, stylish objects,\" says the goatee-bearded executive as he offers a tour of his sparsely furnished home. Surprisingly this is much more than just an Alessi showroom: a leathery le Corbusier chaise longue is splayed in front of the family iMac, and a Zanotta coat rack, resembling a bundle of firewood, greets you as you enter the property. These two items testify to the young Italian's unpartisan interest in quality design. But, of course, Alessi items do pop up pretty much everywhere else, since, as he says with a knowing smile: 'I have access to a very fair discount.'\u2022 Alessi is at 22 Brook Street, London W1 (020 7518 9090) and Westfield, London W1 (020 8576 6100). For more information, visit alessi.com", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Design", "Art and design"], "title": "Interiors: Alistair Duncan visits the Italian design scion Matteo Alessi's Lake Maggiore chalet"},{"date": "2009-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In my experience, Steven Soderbergh's movies (which I never miss) are often as interesting for the films they drive me towards as for their own often fine qualities. Soderbergh is a movie-buff's movie buff, as demonstrated by his marvellous book Getting Away With It, whose extended interview with Dick Lester sent me on a month-long Lester binge, for which I'm still grateful. Anyone who enjoyed The Limey can move from it to all the movies it borrows from and riffs off, like Get Carter, Poor Cow, Point Blank and Peter Yates's Robbery. With his Che movies, the rewards are greater still, if you know where to dig. To make a movie about Che Guevara for American audiences, Soderbergh had few Hollywood models to emulate, unless one counts Richard Fleischer's calamitous 1969 movie Che! Just ask yourself this: if you were a revered, lately slain revolutionary hero with an eye on your place in the history books, would you really choose to played by Omar Sharif? I venture you would not. Nor would anyone associated with the Cuban revolution wish very eagerly to see Fidel Castro played by a sweaty and snarling Jack Palance. Nonetheless, this is the pairing that Fleischer presented us with, locked in a faintly homoerotic embrace with one another and the ineluctable forces of history.No, the best models for this kind of film-making are to be found in Italian cinema. From the outset of Soderbergh's Che diptych, I was picking up echoes of Francesco Rosi's 1962 masterpiece Salvatore Giuliano. Like Che, Rosi's film is the story of an island insurgent seeking independence - a sort of refracted biopic with a Kane-like fragmented narrative, in which the titular figure, a Sicilian separatist bandit, mafia ally and anti-communist terrorist, scarcely appears. Rosi was one of the central figures of the politicised post-neorealist 1960s and 70s of Italian cinema, along with Gillo Pontecorvo, early Pasolini, the Taviani brothers, Ettore Scola and Valerio Zurlini. Dealing with a corrupt postwar Italy, Rosi's movies take on sacred cows like the mysterious death of oil magnate Enrico Mattei (The Mattei Affair), the political machinations around gangster Lucky Luciano, and corruption in the judiciary (Illustrious Corpses). They are nakedly political and aimed directly at the state and its rotting institutions.There's never been much of this in domestic American cinema - its pale version of Salvatore Giuliano was Michael Cimino's lamentable The Sicilian - and frankly, there's not much of it anywhere else these days either, except perhaps in Italy. Last year's Gomorrah bravely lifted the lid on a cesspit of Neapolitan sleaze, and now director Paulo Sorrentino has, perhaps like Soderbergh, adopted the Rosi method for Il Divo, his biopic of the deeply dodgy Italian ex-PM Giulio Andreotti. When corruption and malfeasance reach the levels they have lately, breaking out the Rosi example may be the best way for film-makers of all stripes to grasp the octopus by the throat.", "tags": ["Steven Soderbergh", "Benicio del Toro", "World cinema", "Period and historical", "Film", "Culture", "Che"], "title": "John Patterson on Italian political cinema"},{"date": "2009-03-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's central objective as Italian prime minister has long appeared to be dazzlingly and shamelessly obvious. Ever since he strode into the political vacuum created in 1993 by the simultaneous government corruption scandal on the right and the collapse of Italian communism on the left, Mr Berlusconi has used his political career and power to protect himself and his media empire from the law. During the longest of his three periods as prime minister, Mr Berlusconi not only consolidated his already strong grip on the Italian media industry - he now owns around half of it - but passed legislation granting him immunity from prosecution. Then, when that law was ruled unconstitutional, the newly re-elected Mr Berlusconi brought it back in a new guise last year and has had it successfully signed into law.Mr Berlusconi's success owes something to his own audacity and quite a lot to the deepening weakness of his opponents. The Italian left, in particular, has failed to mount an effective opposition. Yet Mr Berlusconi's latest action - the merger into his new People of Freedom bloc, completed yesterday, of his own Forza Italia party with the Allianza Nazionale which derives directly from Benito Mussolini's fascist tradition - may leave a more lasting mark on Italian public life than anything else the populist tycoon has done.Unlike postwar Germany, postwar Italy never properly confronted its own fascist legacy. As a result, while neofascism has never seriously resurfaced in Germany, in Italy there were important continuities - inherited Mussolini-era laws and officials and the postwar rebirth of the renamed Fascist party among them - in spite of Italy's nominally anti-fascist public culture. Those continuities have just become stronger. It is a day of shame for Italy.Nevertheless, the AN has come a long way in 60 years. Its leader, Gianfranco Fini, has discarded the old political garments and led his party towards the centre. He has worked for more than 15 years as Mr Berlusconi's ally. He talks about the need for dialogue with Islam, denounces antisemitism, and advocates a multi-ethnic Italy - positions which Mr Berlusconi, with his populist anti-gypsy and anti-immigrant campaigns and his fondness for soft-core racism, would struggle to match.Despite its distant liberal origins, modern Italy is historically a rightwing country. Yet it is a very shocking thought that there will be one head of government among the 20 world leaders at the London economic summit this week who has now rebuilt his political base on foundations laid by fascists and who claims that the right is likely to remain in power for generations as a result.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Italy's fascist shadow"},{"date": "2009-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lake Maggiore, the 54km stretch of Alpine water that provides one of northern Italy's most idyllic scenes, might better be named Lake Alessi. No fewer than four members of the eponymous design clan have set up homes along its shores. Matteo, 31, is the youngest to own a house here and the only one of the fourth generation to work full-time for the company founded by his great-grandfather, Giovanni, in 1921. Matteo's house, which he shares with his wife Daniela and their twins, Giacomo and Annalisa, sits high up on the steep west side of the lake. They moved in last year, when Matteo returned to Italy after a stint as the head of Alessi UK. Now he is in charge of trade, marketing and international development in the company's headquarters which are nearby on Lake Orta.The highly sought-after plot where Matteo and Daniela's house was built is on a south-facing tongue of land that enjoys day-long sunshine, not to mention jaw-dropping views. It was snapped up by Matteo's father, Michele, in 1993, with any one of his four children in mind. \"One of us was bound to work for the family business, which is based a few kilometres away,\" says Matteo. \"That person turned out to be me.\" In 1999, Michele and Matteo hired the services of architect Alessandro Ciapponi and together they set about designing a house that capitalised on the wonderful setting, wrapping high, sliding-glass doors around the entire house, allowing it to be flooded with light, as well as making the most of the glorious, far-reaching views of the snow-capped pre-Alps of Piedmont.From the outside, the building has a faintly Swiss chalet look to it - Switzerland starts at the northernmost tip of the lake. A wide, sloping roof crowns the building, but step inside and it's all modern, minimal cool.Matteo describes the decor as \"uncluttered\" and says that both he and Daniela hail from the \"less is more\" school of thought. The avant-garde design stable Alessi is, of course, famous for celebrating wavy, wacky forms, such as wobbly steel tableware and spidery lemon squeezers, but Matteo himself prefers geometry and linearity, at least in terms of the shape of rooms. Still, the prominent presence of two of Alessi's best-known items - Philippe Starck's kettle, which looks like a Viking helmet impaled by a lurid green relay runner's baton, and Zaha Hadid's gracefully twisting, polished, stainless-steel vase - proves that his taste runs beyond the straight or square.\"I have led my life surrounded by beautiful, stylish objects,\" says the goatee-bearded executive as he offers a tour of his sparsely furnished home. Surprisingly this is much more than just an Alessi showroom: a leathery le Corbusier chaise longue is splayed in front of the family iMac, and a Zanotta coat rack, resembling a bundle of firewood, greets you as you enter the property. These two items testify to the young Italian's unpartisan interest in quality design. But, of course, Alessi items do pop up pretty much everywhere else, since, as he says with a knowing smile: 'I have access to a very fair discount.'\u2022 Alessi is at 22 Brook Street, London W1 (020 7518 9090) and Westfield, London W1 (020 8576 6100). For more information, visit alessi.com", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Design", "Art and design"], "title": "Interiors: Alistair Duncan visits the Italian design scion Matteo Alessi's Lake Maggiore chalet"},{"date": "2009-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In my experience, Steven Soderbergh's movies (which I never miss) are often as interesting for the films they drive me towards as for their own often fine qualities. Soderbergh is a movie-buff's movie buff, as demonstrated by his marvellous book Getting Away With It, whose extended interview with Dick Lester sent me on a month-long Lester binge, for which I'm still grateful. Anyone who enjoyed The Limey can move from it to all the movies it borrows from and riffs off, like Get Carter, Poor Cow, Point Blank and Peter Yates's Robbery. With his Che movies, the rewards are greater still, if you know where to dig. To make a movie about Che Guevara for American audiences, Soderbergh had few Hollywood models to emulate, unless one counts Richard Fleischer's calamitous 1969 movie Che! Just ask yourself this: if you were a revered, lately slain revolutionary hero with an eye on your place in the history books, would you really choose to played by Omar Sharif? I venture you would not. Nor would anyone associated with the Cuban revolution wish very eagerly to see Fidel Castro played by a sweaty and snarling Jack Palance. Nonetheless, this is the pairing that Fleischer presented us with, locked in a faintly homoerotic embrace with one another and the ineluctable forces of history.No, the best models for this kind of film-making are to be found in Italian cinema. From the outset of Soderbergh's Che diptych, I was picking up echoes of Francesco Rosi's 1962 masterpiece Salvatore Giuliano. Like Che, Rosi's film is the story of an island insurgent seeking independence - a sort of refracted biopic with a Kane-like fragmented narrative, in which the titular figure, a Sicilian separatist bandit, mafia ally and anti-communist terrorist, scarcely appears. Rosi was one of the central figures of the politicised post-neorealist 1960s and 70s of Italian cinema, along with Gillo Pontecorvo, early Pasolini, the Taviani brothers, Ettore Scola and Valerio Zurlini. Dealing with a corrupt postwar Italy, Rosi's movies take on sacred cows like the mysterious death of oil magnate Enrico Mattei (The Mattei Affair), the political machinations around gangster Lucky Luciano, and corruption in the judiciary (Illustrious Corpses). They are nakedly political and aimed directly at the state and its rotting institutions.There's never been much of this in domestic American cinema - its pale version of Salvatore Giuliano was Michael Cimino's lamentable The Sicilian - and frankly, there's not much of it anywhere else these days either, except perhaps in Italy. Last year's Gomorrah bravely lifted the lid on a cesspit of Neapolitan sleaze, and now director Paulo Sorrentino has, perhaps like Soderbergh, adopted the Rosi method for Il Divo, his biopic of the deeply dodgy Italian ex-PM Giulio Andreotti. When corruption and malfeasance reach the levels they have lately, breaking out the Rosi example may be the best way for film-makers of all stripes to grasp the octopus by the throat.", "tags": ["Steven Soderbergh", "Benicio del Toro", "World cinema", "Period and historical", "Film", "Culture", "Che"], "title": "John Patterson on Italian political cinema"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A more different place from its Nevada namesake it would be hard to conceive. The area, high in the Italian Dolomites, feels a world away from the braying masses that clog skiing's mega-resorts like Val d'Is\u00e8re. In San Cassiano, the closest village, English voices remain rare. It's a pretty, modest place, with a handsome church, a cable car, a couple of hotels and a car park beside the ski piste where you wait for the gloriously named Ulli Crattolave, who picks you up on his skidoo and powers back up the pistes, through the forests, then out in the open above the tree line. Ulli took over six years ago and in 2005 built the Las Vegas Lodge, a new mountain restaurant-with-rooms that redefines the concept of the high-altitude \"refuge\". There's lots of wood, as you'd expect, but instead of rough beams and panelling, it's smooth, polished and light. There's a roaring fire, but it's long, funky and rectangular, set flush into the wall. Then there's the gourmet food served in a restaurant with a glass wall giving views straight out over the slopes. But the real treat awaits upstairs. Instead of bunkbeds in the eaves, there are 10 huge, beautiful double bedrooms with soft white sheets and sparkling bathrooms - all super-stylish. \u2022 Doubles from \u20ac172 half-board including skidoo transfers from San Cassiano (00 39 0471 840 138; www.lasvegasonline.it). Easyjet flies to Innsbruck from around \u00a366 (www.easyjet.com); from the airport it's a two-hour drive to San Cassiano. Tom Robbins is the author of White Weekends, a guide to Europe's best short ski breaks", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Tom Robbins in the other Las Vegas, Alta Badia, Italy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's central objective as Italian prime minister has long appeared to be dazzlingly and shamelessly obvious. Ever since he strode into the political vacuum created in 1993 by the simultaneous government corruption scandal on the right and the collapse of Italian communism on the left, Mr Berlusconi has used his political career and power to protect himself and his media empire from the law. During the longest of his three periods as prime minister, Mr Berlusconi not only consolidated his already strong grip on the Italian media industry - he now owns around half of it - but passed legislation granting him immunity from prosecution. Then, when that law was ruled unconstitutional, the newly re-elected Mr Berlusconi brought it back in a new guise last year and has had it successfully signed into law.Mr Berlusconi's success owes something to his own audacity and quite a lot to the deepening weakness of his opponents. The Italian left, in particular, has failed to mount an effective opposition. Yet Mr Berlusconi's latest action - the merger into his new People of Freedom bloc, completed yesterday, of his own Forza Italia party with the Allianza Nazionale which derives directly from Benito Mussolini's fascist tradition - may leave a more lasting mark on Italian public life than anything else the populist tycoon has done.Unlike postwar Germany, postwar Italy never properly confronted its own fascist legacy. As a result, while neofascism has never seriously resurfaced in Germany, in Italy there were important continuities - inherited Mussolini-era laws and officials and the postwar rebirth of the renamed Fascist party among them - in spite of Italy's nominally anti-fascist public culture. Those continuities have just become stronger. It is a day of shame for Italy.Nevertheless, the AN has come a long way in 60 years. Its leader, Gianfranco Fini, has discarded the old political garments and led his party towards the centre. He has worked for more than 15 years as Mr Berlusconi's ally. He talks about the need for dialogue with Islam, denounces antisemitism, and advocates a multi-ethnic Italy - positions which Mr Berlusconi, with his populist anti-gypsy and anti-immigrant campaigns and his fondness for soft-core racism, would struggle to match.Despite its distant liberal origins, modern Italy is historically a rightwing country. Yet it is a very shocking thought that there will be one head of government among the 20 world leaders at the London economic summit this week who has now rebuilt his political base on foundations laid by fascists and who claims that the right is likely to remain in power for generations as a result.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Italy's fascist shadow"},{"date": "2009-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lake Maggiore, the 54km stretch of Alpine water that provides one of northern Italy's most idyllic scenes, might better be named Lake Alessi. No fewer than four members of the eponymous design clan have set up homes along its shores. Matteo, 31, is the youngest to own a house here and the only one of the fourth generation to work full-time for the company founded by his great-grandfather, Giovanni, in 1921. Matteo's house, which he shares with his wife Daniela and their twins, Giacomo and Annalisa, sits high up on the steep west side of the lake. They moved in last year, when Matteo returned to Italy after a stint as the head of Alessi UK. Now he is in charge of trade, marketing and international development in the company's headquarters which are nearby on Lake Orta.The highly sought-after plot where Matteo and Daniela's house was built is on a south-facing tongue of land that enjoys day-long sunshine, not to mention jaw-dropping views. It was snapped up by Matteo's father, Michele, in 1993, with any one of his four children in mind. \"One of us was bound to work for the family business, which is based a few kilometres away,\" says Matteo. \"That person turned out to be me.\" In 1999, Michele and Matteo hired the services of architect Alessandro Ciapponi and together they set about designing a house that capitalised on the wonderful setting, wrapping high, sliding-glass doors around the entire house, allowing it to be flooded with light, as well as making the most of the glorious, far-reaching views of the snow-capped pre-Alps of Piedmont.From the outside, the building has a faintly Swiss chalet look to it - Switzerland starts at the northernmost tip of the lake. A wide, sloping roof crowns the building, but step inside and it's all modern, minimal cool.Matteo describes the decor as \"uncluttered\" and says that both he and Daniela hail from the \"less is more\" school of thought. The avant-garde design stable Alessi is, of course, famous for celebrating wavy, wacky forms, such as wobbly steel tableware and spidery lemon squeezers, but Matteo himself prefers geometry and linearity, at least in terms of the shape of rooms. Still, the prominent presence of two of Alessi's best-known items - Philippe Starck's kettle, which looks like a Viking helmet impaled by a lurid green relay runner's baton, and Zaha Hadid's gracefully twisting, polished, stainless-steel vase - proves that his taste runs beyond the straight or square.\"I have led my life surrounded by beautiful, stylish objects,\" says the goatee-bearded executive as he offers a tour of his sparsely furnished home. Surprisingly this is much more than just an Alessi showroom: a leathery le Corbusier chaise longue is splayed in front of the family iMac, and a Zanotta coat rack, resembling a bundle of firewood, greets you as you enter the property. These two items testify to the young Italian's unpartisan interest in quality design. But, of course, Alessi items do pop up pretty much everywhere else, since, as he says with a knowing smile: 'I have access to a very fair discount.'\u2022 Alessi is at 22 Brook Street, London W1 (020 7518 9090) and Westfield, London W1 (020 8576 6100). For more information, visit alessi.com", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Design", "Art and design"], "title": "Interiors: Alistair Duncan visits the Italian design scion Matteo Alessi's Lake Maggiore chalet"},{"date": "2009-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In my experience, Steven Soderbergh's movies (which I never miss) are often as interesting for the films they drive me towards as for their own often fine qualities. Soderbergh is a movie-buff's movie buff, as demonstrated by his marvellous book Getting Away With It, whose extended interview with Dick Lester sent me on a month-long Lester binge, for which I'm still grateful. Anyone who enjoyed The Limey can move from it to all the movies it borrows from and riffs off, like Get Carter, Poor Cow, Point Blank and Peter Yates's Robbery. With his Che movies, the rewards are greater still, if you know where to dig. To make a movie about Che Guevara for American audiences, Soderbergh had few Hollywood models to emulate, unless one counts Richard Fleischer's calamitous 1969 movie Che! Just ask yourself this: if you were a revered, lately slain revolutionary hero with an eye on your place in the history books, would you really choose to played by Omar Sharif? I venture you would not. Nor would anyone associated with the Cuban revolution wish very eagerly to see Fidel Castro played by a sweaty and snarling Jack Palance. Nonetheless, this is the pairing that Fleischer presented us with, locked in a faintly homoerotic embrace with one another and the ineluctable forces of history.No, the best models for this kind of film-making are to be found in Italian cinema. From the outset of Soderbergh's Che diptych, I was picking up echoes of Francesco Rosi's 1962 masterpiece Salvatore Giuliano. Like Che, Rosi's film is the story of an island insurgent seeking independence - a sort of refracted biopic with a Kane-like fragmented narrative, in which the titular figure, a Sicilian separatist bandit, mafia ally and anti-communist terrorist, scarcely appears. Rosi was one of the central figures of the politicised post-neorealist 1960s and 70s of Italian cinema, along with Gillo Pontecorvo, early Pasolini, the Taviani brothers, Ettore Scola and Valerio Zurlini. Dealing with a corrupt postwar Italy, Rosi's movies take on sacred cows like the mysterious death of oil magnate Enrico Mattei (The Mattei Affair), the political machinations around gangster Lucky Luciano, and corruption in the judiciary (Illustrious Corpses). They are nakedly political and aimed directly at the state and its rotting institutions.There's never been much of this in domestic American cinema - its pale version of Salvatore Giuliano was Michael Cimino's lamentable The Sicilian - and frankly, there's not much of it anywhere else these days either, except perhaps in Italy. Last year's Gomorrah bravely lifted the lid on a cesspit of Neapolitan sleaze, and now director Paulo Sorrentino has, perhaps like Soderbergh, adopted the Rosi method for Il Divo, his biopic of the deeply dodgy Italian ex-PM Giulio Andreotti. When corruption and malfeasance reach the levels they have lately, breaking out the Rosi example may be the best way for film-makers of all stripes to grasp the octopus by the throat.", "tags": ["Steven Soderbergh", "Benicio del Toro", "World cinema", "Period and historical", "Film", "Culture", "Che"], "title": "John Patterson on Italian political cinema"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A more different place from its Nevada namesake it would be hard to conceive. The area, high in the Italian Dolomites, feels a world away from the braying masses that clog skiing's mega-resorts like Val d'Is\u00e8re. In San Cassiano, the closest village, English voices remain rare. It's a pretty, modest place, with a handsome church, a cable car, a couple of hotels and a car park beside the ski piste where you wait for the gloriously named Ulli Crattolave, who picks you up on his skidoo and powers back up the pistes, through the forests, then out in the open above the tree line. Ulli took over six years ago and in 2005 built the Las Vegas Lodge, a new mountain restaurant-with-rooms that redefines the concept of the high-altitude \"refuge\". There's lots of wood, as you'd expect, but instead of rough beams and panelling, it's smooth, polished and light. There's a roaring fire, but it's long, funky and rectangular, set flush into the wall. Then there's the gourmet food served in a restaurant with a glass wall giving views straight out over the slopes. But the real treat awaits upstairs. Instead of bunkbeds in the eaves, there are 10 huge, beautiful double bedrooms with soft white sheets and sparkling bathrooms - all super-stylish. \u2022 Doubles from \u20ac172 half-board including skidoo transfers from San Cassiano (00 39 0471 840 138; www.lasvegasonline.it). Easyjet flies to Innsbruck from around \u00a366 (www.easyjet.com); from the airport it's a two-hour drive to San Cassiano. Tom Robbins is the author of White Weekends, a guide to Europe's best short ski breaks", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Tom Robbins in the other Las Vegas, Alta Badia, Italy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "1 It seems impossibly dreamy, too good to be true: a beautiful farm up in the hills above Verona with something to catch the eye at every turn: wooden horses on the terrace, carvings on the walls, flowers on the roof. Children set off to see their friends on horseback; Dad creates beautiful objects in his workshop; Mum climbs the hill to collect honey for breakfast. Yet it is all very real, and there is a streak of steeliness, too, running through Ilaria and Maurizio Corazza. This is evident in their determination to be forces for environmental good. \"Every day we have to make choices that affect us, our guests and the land,\" says Ilaria. \"We heat the water with solar panels; we reduce our waste, save water and travel only little and responsibly. But we are involved in tourism - albeit in a small way - and that has a huge impact on the environment. Most of our foreign guests arrive by plane and then hire a car - they need one in these hills - and that has a negative impact that cancels out some of our work. We try to do our best and hope to show guests that it's possible to make a difference.\" Guests are encouraged to explore the hives, the eight organic hectares and the woodwork studio. The Corazzas are keen supporters of local agriculture and organise tasting sessions of local produce and of their own honeys, oils and jams. You can buy all these, plus hand-crafted presents and other local produce, in the tasting room. Maurizio restored part of the structure - which dates from 1800 - himself, and the result looks authentic and attractive: big and airy rooms have simple cotton rugs over stripped floors, rough and whitewashed plastered walls, solid country furniture and excellent beds and bathrooms. There's also a shared kitchen. Breakfast is delicious, with seasonal cakes and home-grown fruits. There is a WWF-managed forest nearby and there are nature trails galore on the farm and beyond. It's an easy place to be, even though there is a keen sense of purpose. Join in with it all or simply settle into the quiet that is everywhere. \u2022 Ca' del Rocolo, near Verona (00 39 045 870 0879; cadelrocolo.com). Two doubles, one family room (\u20ac60-\u20ac75; \u20ac410-\u20ac450 a week). Nearest train stations: Verona Porta Nuova or Verona Porta Vescovo2 The small holding is in a hamlet on the edge of a plain; behind, densely wooded hills extend to the Slovenian border, sometimes crossed just for the gathering of wild berries. From the bedroom balconies there are wonderful views over the treetops; in autumn, the smell of wood smoke wafts around the chalet and creates a wonderful, almost alpine, feel. Guests have spoken of the artistic atmosphere and of the absolute commitment of Toni and Paola Costalunga to doing the right thing environmentally, socially and communally. \"The reconstruction has been done largely by ecological methods,\" says Toni. \"We used all the original building materials that we could find around the property. We repaired hand-made roof tiles, chestnut beams, floor tiles and hand-carved flagstones.\" Simplicity, rusticity and a green approach are the keynotes here; so you'll sleep on traditional, and immensely comfortable, wool and vegetable fibre-filled mattresses, some with blankets, some with handsome quilts. Children will adore the open spaces, the ready-made playmates, the animals and the little pool that's been created by diverting a stream. The main crop here is grapes, and 2009 marks their 20th year of organic farming. Wine from this region is considered by many to be the finest of all Italian wines and Toni and Paola make three varieties. Maps are laid out at breakfast, and there are heaps of books on the region; the walking is wonderful, there's a castle to visit, and a river to picnic by. It is an area as rich in art, architecture, monuments and history as any in Italy. Days draw gently to a close at Casa del Griv\u00f2: fires are lit, tables laid, glasses polished and fine dinners are cooked by Paola using old recipes and their own and local produce. There is candlelight and wine, too, and maybe even music and singing. \u2022 Casa del Griv\u00f2, Faedis, near Udine (00 39 0432 728638; casadelgrivo.com). One double, four family rooms, from \u20ac60; half-board \u20ac50 per person; dinner with wine from \u20ac25. Nearest train station: Udine3 A Slow way of life can't be forced. If people are not utterly committed, it shows,\" says Guido Manfredi Rasponi, who manages the rugged 500-hectare organic Fattoria Barbialla Nuova. \"We are Slow through and through: we wait for just the right moment to collect truffles; we raise our cattle in a leisurely way, giving them all the time they need to grow naturally. We run our agriturismo in a way that we feel helps our guests to leave behind the stresses of modern life.\"\"A Slow way of life can't be forced. If people are not utterly committed, it shows,\" says Guido Manfredi Rasponi, who manages the rugged 500-hectare organic Fattoria Barbialla Nuova. \"We are Slow through and through: we wait for just the right moment to collect truffles; we raise our cattle in a leisurely way, giving them all the time they need to grow naturally. We run our agriturismo in a way that we feel helps our guests to leave behind the stresses of modern life.\"The farm, in a nature reserve, is carved out from a larger estate that was left to Guido; the land has been organic since the early 90s and is perfect for grazing their prized, almost biblical, white Chianina cattle. A little shop on the estate sells the fruits of their labours - bottles of golden oils, precious preserved white truffles, beef - so that guests can take a flavour of the place home with them. There are three self-catering farmhouses, all with sweeping views, all on the top of a hill; Le Trosce, with its four fireplaces, has several levels but is all open-plan. The three flats in Doderi, a casa colonica (traditional farmhouse) embraced by an olive grove, are minimalist: Gianluca's joyous bedcovers and 60s-style furniture in Tuscan colours add style, originality and colour. The apartments in Brentina, another farmhouse deeper in the woods, are a touch more primitive, though many will love the simplicity of the whitewashed walls and handmade staircases. Outside are pergolas, patios and pools, cheerful with deckchairs and decking; there are also hens and an orchard. It is a place for the independent, but the owners are always around to help if you need anything. There will be space soon for cooking courses but meanwhile you can invite the resident chef, Lucia, to your apartment for personal tuition, or just sit back with an aperitif while she works her special magic with an abundance of local produce. Come in autumn and you will follow in the footsteps of the staff from London's River Caf\u00e9 restaurant. They come here annually to hunt for truffles and to keep their restaurant in truffle oil and shavings for the year. Stay in spring and you can join in wildlife walks or take off on your own with special route maps. \u2022 Fattoria Barbialla Nuova, near Montaione (00 39 0571 677259; barbiallanuova.it). Seven apartments: two for two people; three for four people; two for six people (from \u20ac420 for a week self-catering). Nearest train station: S. Miniato-Fucecchio4 Most guests arrive in a state of shock, admit Guido and Martina. The postal address suggests this place is on the Tuscan tourist trail; the reality is glorious isolation. But the Bevilacquas' skills as hosts soothe the most ruffled feathers, and the astonishing panorama of Chianti and the medieval village of Volpaia does the rest. \"We give guests an 'unplugged' experience without letting them feel abandoned,\" says Martina. \"We look after them, make them drinks, cook for them, help them make plans. We know when to leave people alone and when to join in.\" Guido and Martina found the old farm 12 years ago after it had been abandoned for 40 years. \"It was a classic story: farmhouse left to rot, trees growing inside, land overgrown,\" says Martina. The couple are supporters of the Slow Food Movement. Says Guido: \"We are surrounded by 300 hectares of some of the best organic vineyards, olive groves and honey. We take a lot of care choosing our suppliers and, thank God, here it is still possible to find small artisan producers.\" Martina, who does most of the cooking, prepares what is seasonal and good. \"I prepare only one thing each night, just as you would at home. Sometimes we eat beautifully but simply; sometimes dinner is elaborate. I imagined when we moved here that we would find a local lady from the village to cook for us. She never materialised and now I do it all and I love it.\" They are a dynamic pair, full of vigour and life, and they have created a memorable place to stay. The beautiful pool vies for attention with the heart- stopping view, there are a library/bar, fine antiques, lovely art, whitewashed rafters soaring over pretty beds and terraces upon which Guido alights with glasses of wine, maybe a grappa, or a restorative coffee. They are vigilant guardians of the landscape and of local traditions. They richly deserve all the good company that is lured to La Locanda.\u2022 La Locanda, near Radda in Chianti (00 39 0577 738832; lalocanda.it). Three doubles, three twins, one suite, from \u20ac200. Dinner \u20ac35 (Monday, Wednesday & Friday only). Restaurants 4km. Nearest train station: Florence5 Locanda Casanuova is a place of contemplation - and always has been, for it began life as a monastery. Bedrooms are almost monastically simple, but have splashes of colour and style to introduce a perfect measure of modernity.The 23 hectares of vineyards and olives produce 7,000 litres of wine and a lot of olive oil; there is an organic vegetable garden too. Holland and Germany come together in Ursula and Thierry Besan\u00e7on, she behind the smooth efficiency of the place, and in the kitchen with four helpers, and he in his supervision of the estate and the wine-making. They are fine hosts, smiley, humorous and generous. \"That the land should be run on organic principles was the most important thing for us,\" says Ursula, \"and we were lucky that no chemicals had been used for a good number of years before we came. The land has now been managed organically for 50 years.\" The atmosphere is wonderful for people who want to do their own thing unencumbered by hotelly expectations. They are right to call it a \"locanda\" and not a hotel, for it has none of the mannerisms to be found in most hotels. It is an intensely personal place. It was 20 years ago that they came here and resolved to rescue it. They have done so much more: Ursula practises yoga in the early mornings - you are welcome to join her - and is a superb cook; meals are wonderfully convivial affairs in the refectory, off which is a library where you can pore over trekking maps at a big round table. Spontaneity is another feature: musicians might strike up at any moment on the terrace. Ursula and Thierry rejoice in seeing their guests unfurl: \"Those from towns and cities, particularly, arrive stressed. Often they will have planned an itinerary of sightseeing but they relax into a different rhythm. In autumn, people love to get involved in the harvest. Spending time on the land and sharing a big spaghetti on the terrace at lunchtime can be really rewarding.\" Just 500m from the house is a self-cleaning pond, set up as a swimming pool but rich in lily-pads and other vegetation. The lovely garden has terraced steps, tables and delightful corners and nooks. The views are far-reaching. You are close to Florence too, so you could, if you insist, burn yourselves up culturally with the greatest of ease. There are two apartments, separate from the main house and down a bumpy track beside an ancient mulberry tree. They are charming: attractive crocks, a collection of coffee pots and milk pans, candles and woodburner. The mood of serene simplicity is at its most evident in the yoga room, a beautiful space with richly red silky curtains. The Casanuova is a natural candidate for Slow status, with its devotion to organics, its own vegetables, wine and olives, its lack of pretension and a commitment to doing things authentically. It also has that essential ingredient: great character. \u2022 Locanda Casanuova, near Figline Valdarno (00 39 055 950 0027; casanuova.info). Twelve doubles, two suites, four singles - from \u20ac70 per person half board. Two apartments, from \u20ac75 a night for two. Nearest train station: Figline Valdarno6 Wanda is the overseer of this 45-hectare estate. With her three daughters, Maria, Alessandra and Sara, and their daughters, you have the privilege of seeing Italian family life in action. I Mandorli is a higgledy-piggledy house with little steps here and there leading to rooms and apartments, outhouses, lofts and old olive mills. Flowers tumble from pots, capers scale stone walls and fruit and cypress trees give shade in the garden. Bedrooms are simple affairs with wrought-iron beds and pale homemade patchwork quilts; the small bathrooms are spotless. The vineyard is managed organically; vegetables and sunflowers are grown and there is a little outlet for the estate's produce; you can buy wine, lentils, oils and jams to take home. Guests can wander the land, pick herbs, help with the olive harvest, take cookery lessons, cycle, walk and go rafting. Children will love the wooden slide and seesaw, the old pathways and steps on this shallow hillside, the new pool - wonderful to return to after outings to Assisi and Spoleto. I Mandorli is aptly named: there's at least one almond tree outside each apartment. The blossom in February is stunning and, in summer, masses of greenery shades the old casa padronale. Each daughter speaks a different foreign language, so nobody is excluded from the conviviality of the house. Guests are helped with their itineraries and the sisters promote walking and biking - even if just through the olive groves, for there are over 5,000 trees. \u2022 I Mandorli Agriturismo, near Trevi (00 39 0742 78669; agriturismoimandorli.com). One twin/double, two triples, from \u20ac40. Three apartments: one for two; two for four, from \u20ac65 a night. Nearest train station: Trevi7 The Savinis' commitment to organic farming and to the environment is almost unequalled. In 1980, while living in Milan and running a tiny farm in Piedmont, Augusto and Adriana decided they should search for a bigger farm further into the countryside in Le Marche. Northern Le Marche then was some way behind much of the rest of Italy and that attracted the Savinis. That the farm was within sight of Urbino delighted them, for being close to the city would add a cultural dimension. \"In the early 80s certified organic farming was in its infancy,\" says Giulia, their daughter. \"Our beginning was not easy. We arrived with a deep respect for the soil - we didn't want to break the surface more than we had to - and we were regarded as townies who were nuts!\" Undeterred they pressed on and are now respected for the dynamic farm they have created. The Locanda stands among ancient protected oak trees. Its 1920s frame has grown into an unusual, unexpectedly modern, small hotel. The bigger rooms with the views are worth asking for. During the renovation they double-insulated the walls and roof, installed solar panels for heating water and have a wood-fired boiler that is fuelled with their own coppiced wood from their 185 acres of land. Loos have dual flushes, all light bulbs are low energy and bed linen is 100% natural fibre to reduce allergens. \"We produce over 70% of the fresh food that we serve in the restaurant and the rest we buy from nearby farms, most of them organic,\" says Giulia. There are DOP cheeses, lamb, their own beef, prize-winning extra virgin olive oil, excellent salamis and a \"heavenly\" pancetta. All are paired perfectly with local wines: sangiovese from their own grapes, or maybe a bianchello, a rosso piceno or the visner dessert wine made with morello cherries. They make bread, pasta, cakes, pastries, salamis, jams and jellies and grow many herbs for the kitchen and for home-made liqueurs. They mill their own grain and forage for nuts and white truffles. They are a dynamic threesome: Augusto with his knowledge of architecture, local history and culture, Adriana with her love of gardening, cooking and herbalism and Giulia with her gift for communication. \u2022 Locanda della Valle Nuova, near Sagrata di Fermignano (00 39 0722 330303; vallenuova.it). Five doubles, one twin; half-board \u20ac84 per person. Two apartments for two, \u20ac680 a week. Nearest train station: Fano8 Slow has been the story of our lives.\" So says Maureen Scheda, speaking for herself and for her architect husband Roberto. Maureen had, like many of us a passion for Italy, its history, language and art. Unlike many of us, she moved to Italy to embrace all that she held dear. In the 60s she left Wales for Rome, met Roberto and married him. But after having two children Maureen found Rome was not Slow enough. Her thoughts were turning to the idea of living in a medieval hill-top village. They gave up lucrative careers and plumped for a move to Casperia - a higgledy-piggledy joyful, vibrant village perched in the Sabine hills north of Rome, where they found their dream home in La Torretta. The dilapidated 15th-century palazzo was waiting to be rescued. Roberto poured his heart, soul and architectural talent into its restoration. It is a stunning, lofty house with dreamy views and beautiful interiors including a huge ground-floor sitting room with frescoes around the cornice, giant fireplace, modern sofas and chairs, books, paintings and piano. The terrace views are spectacular. Maureen had another ambition. \"Our goal was that our work would help revitalise the village. So many people were seeking work in the cities, abandoning their beautiful birthplaces for a humdrum life of commuting. We wanted to show them what treasures they had right here in Casperia - that it could be possible to live and work in the village. I wanted to do what I could to attract visitors. We have battled with local authorities to preserve the environment and the identity of the village. We have made progress and Casperia now knows a little tourism.\" Other bed and breakfasts run by local people have opened; there are three restaurants, a yoga retreat and an ever-growing interest in Slow food. Maureen and Roberto organise walking and climbing holidays, too - one of their daughters is a qualified climbing instructor and the other runs cookery courses. A local Slow food expert organises wine and olive oil tastings. \u2022 La Torretta, Casperia, Sabina (00 39 0765 63202; latorrettabandb.com). Five doubles, one single, two connecting rooms for a family; doubles \u20ac90; dinner with wine \u20ac30 by arrangement. Nearest train station: Poggio Mirteto9 Forty-four families once lived in this substantial dwelling in Murgia, and the place still has the feel of a centre for the wider community. The extended families lived around the courtyard, with the bread oven in the centre - an efficient way of sharing resources and bringing people together over a common activity. When Pietro bought the place in 1990 he had no idea that his great-grandmother's sister had sold it in 1890, and that he had, through pure chance, done the proper thing by bringing it back into the family. Forty-four families once lived in this substantial dwelling in Murgia, and the place still has the feel of a centre for the wider community. The extended families lived around the courtyard, with the bread oven in the centre - an efficient way of sharing resources and bringing people together over a common activity. When Pietro bought the place in 1990 he had no idea that his great-grandmother's sister had sold it in 1890, and that he had, through pure chance, done the proper thing by bringing it back into the family. It is a most handsome and traditional farm dating from the 17th century and, after years of neglect, is going strong again with Pietro's respect for tradition and craftsmanship reaching into every crevice. Shapes are rounded; there is nothing chemical in the rooms - no dyes, no bleaches; tiles, and even basins, are made by hand and to traditional methods; mattresses are of natural latex and tablecloths and curtains are of hessian. The walls have been lime-washed, the furniture polished with linseed oil; reclaimed wood has been used for doors; and the food is devotedly organic. Guests have a library to retreat to and a veranda for sunset- and star-gazing. This is a land of sunshine, with Foggia rated the hottest city in Italy. So it is right that 48 solar panels bring the sun's heat to the floor's underside, and that the boiler is fuelled by olive nuts - in plentiful supply and otherwise wasted. Rainwater is \"harvested\" from the roof and taken to a vast underground tank. There are 190 hectares of organic farm, largely flat, surrounding the house - a serious guarantor of high-quality food. There are olives, cherries, almonds and grapes, all certified to the highest standards.Puglia is no slouch in the food department, producing a wonderful, creamy-buttery cheese called burrata - served at breakfast with homemade cakes and jams, orchard fruits and other local cheeses - it also produces vast quantities of almonds and olive oil from trees on the plains of the Murgia. Puglia has been so little known to tourists that its towns and villages come as a delightful surprise. Lecce was built between 1660 and 1720, in high baroque style and of local golden stone. Martina Franca is another town of timeless beauty, with a piazza, Piazza Roma, some consider to be Italy's finest. Trani was a prosperous port in the Middle Ages and impressive churches, castles and palazzos are testimony to this. \u2022 Lama di Luna Biomasseria, near Montegrosso (00 39 0883 569505; lamadiluna.com). Ten twins/doubles from \u20ac140; dinner with wine \u20ac25. Nearest train station: Barletta10 Turn up during dinner at Il Frantoio and you may feel you have stumbled onto a film set: the courtyard twinkles with candles and sparkling glasses, music drifts from the house, Armando glides elegantly between the tables explaining the provenance and flavours of each little dish and of the wines he has chosen for you. The masseria runs on well-oiled wheels, with each family member assigned a role that draws on their strengths. Daughter Serenella works alongside her husband Silvio and helper Giuseppe to look after the 72 hectares of olive groves and orchards; Armando looks after the staff, sources the wine and is very much 'front of house'; Rosalba has worked magic within the house and the kitchens. The farmhouse is centred on a 16th-century olive press; parts of it were built in 1544 and the bedrooms are in the 19th-century part of the house. The visitors' quarter is a series of beautiful rooms, ranging from fairytale with lace and toile to formal with antique armoires and gilt-framed art. It is a gloriously eclectic mix. Despite the professional edge to this dynamic masseria, the homely touches are ever-present: there is a kitchen for guests to use, sitting rooms and a library. The 16th-century citrus garden, with lemon, orange and mandarin trees and the odd peacock, is alive with colours and fragrances.From the kitchen garden come vegetables, herbs and edible flowers. Rosalba oversees the menus and she and her six chefs create elaborate flavours with simple ingredients; a different olive oil is used in each of the eight courses. \"We reproduce centuries-old local recipes; food in the south comes from a long history of peasant dishes,\" explains Armando. They also make liqueurs, jams, pickles, preserves and pat\u00e9s to ensure that none of their crops go to waste; you can buy jars to take home. The lush Itrian valley is rich in archaeological sites. Seven kilometres away are the Adriatic beaches, some lively with cafes and others protected nature reserves.\"We conduct ourselves in a way that is at one with nature,\" says Armando. \"Guests say that what we are doing is special but we say that we are simply behaving in a way that should be normal for everybody.\" \u2022 Masseria Il Frantoio, Ostuni (00 39 0831 330276; masseriailfrantoio.it). Three doubles, two triples, three family rooms, from \u20ac176; apartment for four from \u20ac319; dinner with wine \u20ac55 by arrangement. Nearest train station: OstuniFor the complete 'Slow Travel' experience, ditch the plane and travel to Italy by train. Book railway tickets to Italy with Rail Europe (0844 848 5848; raileurope.co.uk). You can explore routes and timetables for Italy's extensive rail system at trenitalia.com, where you can also book tickets within the country. Seat61.com is another useful resource.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Travel", "Green travel", "Books", "Hotels", "Rail travel", "Travel writing"], "title": "A slow travellers' guide to Italy"},{"date": "2009-06-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If a contest was to be held to choose Europe's most sexist politician, Silvio Berlusconi would undoubtedly win. It was Berlusconi who said that the Spanish cabinet, with its equal number of male and female ministers, was \"too pink\". It was Berlusconi who said there were not enough soldiers in the army to prevent rapes, because Italian women were too beautiful, and who suggested that foreign firms should establish themselves in Italy because Italian secretaries were the most attractive in the world.And, if it is objected that these were only words - harmless fun, in the president's own estimation - his behaviour toward the women in his own life has also been much criticised, not least by his wife. So it is fitting that a growing scandal concerning a series of beautiful women should be a cause of embarrassment, and perhaps of more than embarrassment, for a leader who had hoped at this moment to be concentrating on his statesman's duties as host of the G8 summit next month. When his wife announced her intention to divorce him because, among other reasons, of his relationship with the 18-year-old model Noemi Letizia, Berlusconi went into his standard escape and evade pattern - alternating dismissive jokes with attacks on the press while refusing to answer any questions - it seemed for a while as if he would get away with it. Now a new set of allegations has surfaced, concerning the attendance of other young women at lavish parties held at Berlusconi's villa. This seems more like dotage than dalliance.His attitude to women is only one among the constellation of reasons why Italians should not have three times voted Berlusconi into power. His refusal to recognise any conflict between his business and media interests and his political position, his attacks on parliament and the judiciary, his use of his majority to give himself immunity against prosecution, his failure to act against organised crime, his economic mismanagement and the illiberal reforms he is planning would all compete for the top position.But Berlusconi's success, sadly, is a product rather than a cause of the collapse of Italy's political system, a collapse which has fatally weakened both left and centre, leaving the field free for opportunists and xenophobes. It is a tragedy that the \"mani pulite\" judicial investigations into political corruption which seemed to promise a grand renewal of Italian politics in the early 90s have led Italy to this pass. Berlusconi's promise in the elections earlier this year - that he would bring Italy stability - means not much more than that Italy and the rest of Europe will have to endure him for quite a while longer.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Berlusconi's way | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-06-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If a contest was to be held to choose Europe's most sexist politician, Silvio Berlusconi would undoubtedly win. It was Berlusconi who said that the Spanish cabinet, with its equal number of male and female ministers, was \"too pink\". It was Berlusconi who said there were not enough soldiers in the army to prevent rapes, because Italian women were too beautiful, and who suggested that foreign firms should establish themselves in Italy because Italian secretaries were the most attractive in the world.And, if it is objected that these were only words - harmless fun, in the president's own estimation - his behaviour toward the women in his own life has also been much criticised, not least by his wife. So it is fitting that a growing scandal concerning a series of beautiful women should be a cause of embarrassment, and perhaps of more than embarrassment, for a leader who had hoped at this moment to be concentrating on his statesman's duties as host of the G8 summit next month. When his wife announced her intention to divorce him because, among other reasons, of his relationship with the 18-year-old model Noemi Letizia, Berlusconi went into his standard escape and evade pattern - alternating dismissive jokes with attacks on the press while refusing to answer any questions - it seemed for a while as if he would get away with it. Now a new set of allegations has surfaced, concerning the attendance of other young women at lavish parties held at Berlusconi's villa. This seems more like dotage than dalliance.His attitude to women is only one among the constellation of reasons why Italians should not have three times voted Berlusconi into power. His refusal to recognise any conflict between his business and media interests and his political position, his attacks on parliament and the judiciary, his use of his majority to give himself immunity against prosecution, his failure to act against organised crime, his economic mismanagement and the illiberal reforms he is planning would all compete for the top position.But Berlusconi's success, sadly, is a product rather than a cause of the collapse of Italy's political system, a collapse which has fatally weakened both left and centre, leaving the field free for opportunists and xenophobes. It is a tragedy that the \"mani pulite\" judicial investigations into political corruption which seemed to promise a grand renewal of Italian politics in the early 90s have led Italy to this pass. Berlusconi's promise in the elections earlier this year - that he would bring Italy stability - means not much more than that Italy and the rest of Europe will have to endure him for quite a while longer.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Berlusconi's way | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-04-06T14:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Today's earthquake in the Abruzzo region of Italy was triggered by slippage in a faultline that runs north-south beneath the Apennine mountains.There are geological faults, or weaknesses in the Earth's crust, all the way up the spine of Italy, and tectonic movement is very slowly pulling the crust, and the Apennine mountain range, apart.The faultline is thought to be tens of miles long. The earthquake was so destructive because it happened at the relatively shallow depth of 6.2 miles (10km).Italy is one of the most seismically active countries in Europe. The Alps in the north are the result of the African tectonic plate pushing north into the Eurasian plate, a process that continues at a pace of 3cm a year.Movement of a second microplate beneath the Adriatic sea off the country's east coast is thought to have contributed to today's earthquake.\"On the basis of past seismicity in this area, the possibility of a further event of similar magnitude cannot be ruled out,\" said Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey.Minor tremors are common in Italy, but it is unusual for the country to experience an earthquake as deadly as today's.In 2002, a quake in the southern town of San Giuliano di Puglia killed more than 25 people, the highest number to die in an Italian earthquake in more than 20 years. More than 40,000 people lost their homes.In 1980, more than 2,700 people were killed and several thousand injured in a quake measuring at least magnitude 6.9. The epicentre was at Eboli, about 50 miles south of Naples.One of Italy's most deadly earthquakes struck a century ago in 1908, destroying the Sicilian town of Messina and, according to some estimates, killed as many as 100,000 people.", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Science", "Geology", "Europe"], "title": "Background: Italy and earthquakes"},{"date": "2009-06-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If a contest was to be held to choose Europe's most sexist politician, Silvio Berlusconi would undoubtedly win. It was Berlusconi who said that the Spanish cabinet, with its equal number of male and female ministers, was \"too pink\". It was Berlusconi who said there were not enough soldiers in the army to prevent rapes, because Italian women were too beautiful, and who suggested that foreign firms should establish themselves in Italy because Italian secretaries were the most attractive in the world.And, if it is objected that these were only words - harmless fun, in the president's own estimation - his behaviour toward the women in his own life has also been much criticised, not least by his wife. So it is fitting that a growing scandal concerning a series of beautiful women should be a cause of embarrassment, and perhaps of more than embarrassment, for a leader who had hoped at this moment to be concentrating on his statesman's duties as host of the G8 summit next month. When his wife announced her intention to divorce him because, among other reasons, of his relationship with the 18-year-old model Noemi Letizia, Berlusconi went into his standard escape and evade pattern - alternating dismissive jokes with attacks on the press while refusing to answer any questions - it seemed for a while as if he would get away with it. Now a new set of allegations has surfaced, concerning the attendance of other young women at lavish parties held at Berlusconi's villa. This seems more like dotage than dalliance.His attitude to women is only one among the constellation of reasons why Italians should not have three times voted Berlusconi into power. His refusal to recognise any conflict between his business and media interests and his political position, his attacks on parliament and the judiciary, his use of his majority to give himself immunity against prosecution, his failure to act against organised crime, his economic mismanagement and the illiberal reforms he is planning would all compete for the top position.But Berlusconi's success, sadly, is a product rather than a cause of the collapse of Italy's political system, a collapse which has fatally weakened both left and centre, leaving the field free for opportunists and xenophobes. It is a tragedy that the \"mani pulite\" judicial investigations into political corruption which seemed to promise a grand renewal of Italian politics in the early 90s have led Italy to this pass. Berlusconi's promise in the elections earlier this year - that he would bring Italy stability - means not much more than that Italy and the rest of Europe will have to endure him for quite a while longer.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Berlusconi's way | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-04-06T14:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Today's earthquake in the Abruzzo region of Italy was triggered by slippage in a faultline that runs north-south beneath the Apennine mountains.There are geological faults, or weaknesses in the Earth's crust, all the way up the spine of Italy, and tectonic movement is very slowly pulling the crust, and the Apennine mountain range, apart.The faultline is thought to be tens of miles long. The earthquake was so destructive because it happened at the relatively shallow depth of 6.2 miles (10km).Italy is one of the most seismically active countries in Europe. The Alps in the north are the result of the African tectonic plate pushing north into the Eurasian plate, a process that continues at a pace of 3cm a year.Movement of a second microplate beneath the Adriatic sea off the country's east coast is thought to have contributed to today's earthquake.\"On the basis of past seismicity in this area, the possibility of a further event of similar magnitude cannot be ruled out,\" said Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey.Minor tremors are common in Italy, but it is unusual for the country to experience an earthquake as deadly as today's.In 2002, a quake in the southern town of San Giuliano di Puglia killed more than 25 people, the highest number to die in an Italian earthquake in more than 20 years. More than 40,000 people lost their homes.In 1980, more than 2,700 people were killed and several thousand injured in a quake measuring at least magnitude 6.9. The epicentre was at Eboli, about 50 miles south of Naples.One of Italy's most deadly earthquakes struck a century ago in 1908, destroying the Sicilian town of Messina and, according to some estimates, killed as many as 100,000 people.", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Science", "Geology", "Europe"], "title": "Background: Italy and earthquakes"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"I was stuck for three hours under the rubble. I could not free myself, but luckily two beams stopped a wall from crushing me. This city is full of army barracks, but I was pulled out by residents digging with their bare hands. I was shouting for help. I could hear my mobile phone ringing but I could not get to it. Finally there was a small opening. Hands reached out, they grabbed me, and I got out.\"Guido Mariani, 23, a student from L'Aquila\"The shocks have been going on since December. We haven't slept for months. Last night there were shocks throughout the evening, including a strong one at about 10.30. Then, all of a sudden, we heard a massive roar. We managed to flee to the staircase, half suffocated by the dust. I looked ahead of me and the building opposite did not exist any more.\"Lucia di Cocco, 27, L'Aquila\"I had given birth at 7.30 in the evening and managed to escape from the hospital with my stitches in, without shoes, carrying my drip, while my mother carried the baby. Everyone was fleeing from the hospital, including the doctors.\"Annalisa Angelini, 28, L'Aquila\"When the earthquake came all the villagers ran panicking into the streets. We saw the village's main tower collapse but thank God no one was killed. I had to persuade people it was OK to return to their houses and now we are drinking a little wine and are all relieved to be alive. Some of us are not so lucky. My friend has just returned home to rest after digging with his bare hands in rubble at L'Aquila for the body of his girlfriend. He will return tomorrow to dig again.\"Daniele Kihlgren, hotel owner, Santo Stefano di Sessanio\"Everything is awful but at least we are alive. We were in our house in the suburbs of L'Aquila when the earthquake struck around 3.15-3.30am. It was awful; we didn't know what to do. It lasted about 20 seconds and everything was a mess, with all our things on the floor. Our flat is on the third floor and it was difficult to go downstairs because there were no lights. Luckily our car was parked outside and not in the garage, and we drove to a village about 10km from L'Aquila, where our other house was nearly destroyed.\"Graziella Fantasia, 60, an English teacher in L'Aquila\"There was a first tremor around a quarter to eleven and we considered going out, but we didn't as we had become so used to them. Then the top floor fell down on the lower one and the corridor was smashed. Our 18-year-old daughter got under the bed as she had been trained to do and we got out before the next big one. We'd lived in the house since 1977, a beautiful old palazzo built in 1703, and now it's destroyed. We will spend the night in someone's garden. I don't think I will be sleeping between four walls for some time.\"Marion Cadman, a teacher at the English school of L'Aquila\"When I left home I saw buildings all around that had collapsed. And then, looking down towards L'Aquila I saw a cloud of smoke rising from within the town that made it seem like the whole town had just sunk into the ground. Before I could get there people were asking [for] help. I began to dig and we got out my cousin, saved because a wardrobe fell across her and protected her. But my uncle, 63 and full of life, died under that rubble.\"Guido Liris, a doctor in the town of Pianola near L'Aquila", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Eyewitnesses describe Italy earthquake"},{"date": "2009-06-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If a contest was to be held to choose Europe's most sexist politician, Silvio Berlusconi would undoubtedly win. It was Berlusconi who said that the Spanish cabinet, with its equal number of male and female ministers, was \"too pink\". It was Berlusconi who said there were not enough soldiers in the army to prevent rapes, because Italian women were too beautiful, and who suggested that foreign firms should establish themselves in Italy because Italian secretaries were the most attractive in the world.And, if it is objected that these were only words - harmless fun, in the president's own estimation - his behaviour toward the women in his own life has also been much criticised, not least by his wife. So it is fitting that a growing scandal concerning a series of beautiful women should be a cause of embarrassment, and perhaps of more than embarrassment, for a leader who had hoped at this moment to be concentrating on his statesman's duties as host of the G8 summit next month. When his wife announced her intention to divorce him because, among other reasons, of his relationship with the 18-year-old model Noemi Letizia, Berlusconi went into his standard escape and evade pattern - alternating dismissive jokes with attacks on the press while refusing to answer any questions - it seemed for a while as if he would get away with it. Now a new set of allegations has surfaced, concerning the attendance of other young women at lavish parties held at Berlusconi's villa. This seems more like dotage than dalliance.His attitude to women is only one among the constellation of reasons why Italians should not have three times voted Berlusconi into power. His refusal to recognise any conflict between his business and media interests and his political position, his attacks on parliament and the judiciary, his use of his majority to give himself immunity against prosecution, his failure to act against organised crime, his economic mismanagement and the illiberal reforms he is planning would all compete for the top position.But Berlusconi's success, sadly, is a product rather than a cause of the collapse of Italy's political system, a collapse which has fatally weakened both left and centre, leaving the field free for opportunists and xenophobes. It is a tragedy that the \"mani pulite\" judicial investigations into political corruption which seemed to promise a grand renewal of Italian politics in the early 90s have led Italy to this pass. Berlusconi's promise in the elections earlier this year - that he would bring Italy stability - means not much more than that Italy and the rest of Europe will have to endure him for quite a while longer.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Berlusconi's way | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-04-06T14:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Today's earthquake in the Abruzzo region of Italy was triggered by slippage in a faultline that runs north-south beneath the Apennine mountains.There are geological faults, or weaknesses in the Earth's crust, all the way up the spine of Italy, and tectonic movement is very slowly pulling the crust, and the Apennine mountain range, apart.The faultline is thought to be tens of miles long. The earthquake was so destructive because it happened at the relatively shallow depth of 6.2 miles (10km).Italy is one of the most seismically active countries in Europe. The Alps in the north are the result of the African tectonic plate pushing north into the Eurasian plate, a process that continues at a pace of 3cm a year.Movement of a second microplate beneath the Adriatic sea off the country's east coast is thought to have contributed to today's earthquake.\"On the basis of past seismicity in this area, the possibility of a further event of similar magnitude cannot be ruled out,\" said Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey.Minor tremors are common in Italy, but it is unusual for the country to experience an earthquake as deadly as today's.In 2002, a quake in the southern town of San Giuliano di Puglia killed more than 25 people, the highest number to die in an Italian earthquake in more than 20 years. More than 40,000 people lost their homes.In 1980, more than 2,700 people were killed and several thousand injured in a quake measuring at least magnitude 6.9. The epicentre was at Eboli, about 50 miles south of Naples.One of Italy's most deadly earthquakes struck a century ago in 1908, destroying the Sicilian town of Messina and, according to some estimates, killed as many as 100,000 people.", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Science", "Geology", "Europe"], "title": "Background: Italy and earthquakes"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"I was stuck for three hours under the rubble. I could not free myself, but luckily two beams stopped a wall from crushing me. This city is full of army barracks, but I was pulled out by residents digging with their bare hands. I was shouting for help. I could hear my mobile phone ringing but I could not get to it. Finally there was a small opening. Hands reached out, they grabbed me, and I got out.\"Guido Mariani, 23, a student from L'Aquila\"The shocks have been going on since December. We haven't slept for months. Last night there were shocks throughout the evening, including a strong one at about 10.30. Then, all of a sudden, we heard a massive roar. We managed to flee to the staircase, half suffocated by the dust. I looked ahead of me and the building opposite did not exist any more.\"Lucia di Cocco, 27, L'Aquila\"I had given birth at 7.30 in the evening and managed to escape from the hospital with my stitches in, without shoes, carrying my drip, while my mother carried the baby. Everyone was fleeing from the hospital, including the doctors.\"Annalisa Angelini, 28, L'Aquila\"When the earthquake came all the villagers ran panicking into the streets. We saw the village's main tower collapse but thank God no one was killed. I had to persuade people it was OK to return to their houses and now we are drinking a little wine and are all relieved to be alive. Some of us are not so lucky. My friend has just returned home to rest after digging with his bare hands in rubble at L'Aquila for the body of his girlfriend. He will return tomorrow to dig again.\"Daniele Kihlgren, hotel owner, Santo Stefano di Sessanio\"Everything is awful but at least we are alive. We were in our house in the suburbs of L'Aquila when the earthquake struck around 3.15-3.30am. It was awful; we didn't know what to do. It lasted about 20 seconds and everything was a mess, with all our things on the floor. Our flat is on the third floor and it was difficult to go downstairs because there were no lights. Luckily our car was parked outside and not in the garage, and we drove to a village about 10km from L'Aquila, where our other house was nearly destroyed.\"Graziella Fantasia, 60, an English teacher in L'Aquila\"There was a first tremor around a quarter to eleven and we considered going out, but we didn't as we had become so used to them. Then the top floor fell down on the lower one and the corridor was smashed. Our 18-year-old daughter got under the bed as she had been trained to do and we got out before the next big one. We'd lived in the house since 1977, a beautiful old palazzo built in 1703, and now it's destroyed. We will spend the night in someone's garden. I don't think I will be sleeping between four walls for some time.\"Marion Cadman, a teacher at the English school of L'Aquila\"When I left home I saw buildings all around that had collapsed. And then, looking down towards L'Aquila I saw a cloud of smoke rising from within the town that made it seem like the whole town had just sunk into the ground. Before I could get there people were asking [for] help. I began to dig and we got out my cousin, saved because a wardrobe fell across her and protected her. But my uncle, 63 and full of life, died under that rubble.\"Guido Liris, a doctor in the town of Pianola near L'Aquila", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Eyewitnesses describe Italy earthquake"},{"date": "2009-04-06T10:22:18Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rescue teams are searching for survivors after this morning's earthquake in central Italy, which has claimed at least 27 lives and destroyed or damaged thousands of homes, churches and other buildings.The earthquake struck 60 miles north east of Rome at 2.32am British time and is estimated to have been at a depth of 6.2 miles.The US Geological Survey (USGS) recorded the earthquake at magnitude 6.3, and said it was the result of movement along a fault line running north west to south east in the Apennine mountains.The USGS estimates that a population of 68,000 in L'Aquila will have experienced severe shaking, and ranked the potential damage to structures in the area as \"heavy\". A further 62,000 people are estimated to have felt strong or very strong shaking, with a moderate to heavy impact on buildings in the regions affected.The dense populations of Rome and Naples would have felt only light tremors from the earthquake, the geologists say.A magnitude 6.9 earthquake occurred 150 miles southeast of this morning's earthquake on 23 November 1980, with an estimated population of 252,000 exposed to severe shaking. The earthquake killed 2,483 people. In 1997, a magnitude 6 earthquake struck 50 miles north-northwest of this morning's quake, killing 11 and injuring more than 100. It destroyed around 80,000 homes in the Marche and Umbria regions.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Geology"], "title": "Earthquake strikes central Italy"},{"date": "2009-06-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If a contest was to be held to choose Europe's most sexist politician, Silvio Berlusconi would undoubtedly win. It was Berlusconi who said that the Spanish cabinet, with its equal number of male and female ministers, was \"too pink\". It was Berlusconi who said there were not enough soldiers in the army to prevent rapes, because Italian women were too beautiful, and who suggested that foreign firms should establish themselves in Italy because Italian secretaries were the most attractive in the world.And, if it is objected that these were only words - harmless fun, in the president's own estimation - his behaviour toward the women in his own life has also been much criticised, not least by his wife. So it is fitting that a growing scandal concerning a series of beautiful women should be a cause of embarrassment, and perhaps of more than embarrassment, for a leader who had hoped at this moment to be concentrating on his statesman's duties as host of the G8 summit next month. When his wife announced her intention to divorce him because, among other reasons, of his relationship with the 18-year-old model Noemi Letizia, Berlusconi went into his standard escape and evade pattern - alternating dismissive jokes with attacks on the press while refusing to answer any questions - it seemed for a while as if he would get away with it. Now a new set of allegations has surfaced, concerning the attendance of other young women at lavish parties held at Berlusconi's villa. This seems more like dotage than dalliance.His attitude to women is only one among the constellation of reasons why Italians should not have three times voted Berlusconi into power. His refusal to recognise any conflict between his business and media interests and his political position, his attacks on parliament and the judiciary, his use of his majority to give himself immunity against prosecution, his failure to act against organised crime, his economic mismanagement and the illiberal reforms he is planning would all compete for the top position.But Berlusconi's success, sadly, is a product rather than a cause of the collapse of Italy's political system, a collapse which has fatally weakened both left and centre, leaving the field free for opportunists and xenophobes. It is a tragedy that the \"mani pulite\" judicial investigations into political corruption which seemed to promise a grand renewal of Italian politics in the early 90s have led Italy to this pass. Berlusconi's promise in the elections earlier this year - that he would bring Italy stability - means not much more than that Italy and the rest of Europe will have to endure him for quite a while longer.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Berlusconi's way | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-04-06T14:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Today's earthquake in the Abruzzo region of Italy was triggered by slippage in a faultline that runs north-south beneath the Apennine mountains.There are geological faults, or weaknesses in the Earth's crust, all the way up the spine of Italy, and tectonic movement is very slowly pulling the crust, and the Apennine mountain range, apart.The faultline is thought to be tens of miles long. The earthquake was so destructive because it happened at the relatively shallow depth of 6.2 miles (10km).Italy is one of the most seismically active countries in Europe. The Alps in the north are the result of the African tectonic plate pushing north into the Eurasian plate, a process that continues at a pace of 3cm a year.Movement of a second microplate beneath the Adriatic sea off the country's east coast is thought to have contributed to today's earthquake.\"On the basis of past seismicity in this area, the possibility of a further event of similar magnitude cannot be ruled out,\" said Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey.Minor tremors are common in Italy, but it is unusual for the country to experience an earthquake as deadly as today's.In 2002, a quake in the southern town of San Giuliano di Puglia killed more than 25 people, the highest number to die in an Italian earthquake in more than 20 years. More than 40,000 people lost their homes.In 1980, more than 2,700 people were killed and several thousand injured in a quake measuring at least magnitude 6.9. The epicentre was at Eboli, about 50 miles south of Naples.One of Italy's most deadly earthquakes struck a century ago in 1908, destroying the Sicilian town of Messina and, according to some estimates, killed as many as 100,000 people.", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Science", "Geology", "Europe"], "title": "Background: Italy and earthquakes"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"I was stuck for three hours under the rubble. I could not free myself, but luckily two beams stopped a wall from crushing me. This city is full of army barracks, but I was pulled out by residents digging with their bare hands. I was shouting for help. I could hear my mobile phone ringing but I could not get to it. Finally there was a small opening. Hands reached out, they grabbed me, and I got out.\"Guido Mariani, 23, a student from L'Aquila\"The shocks have been going on since December. We haven't slept for months. Last night there were shocks throughout the evening, including a strong one at about 10.30. Then, all of a sudden, we heard a massive roar. We managed to flee to the staircase, half suffocated by the dust. I looked ahead of me and the building opposite did not exist any more.\"Lucia di Cocco, 27, L'Aquila\"I had given birth at 7.30 in the evening and managed to escape from the hospital with my stitches in, without shoes, carrying my drip, while my mother carried the baby. Everyone was fleeing from the hospital, including the doctors.\"Annalisa Angelini, 28, L'Aquila\"When the earthquake came all the villagers ran panicking into the streets. We saw the village's main tower collapse but thank God no one was killed. I had to persuade people it was OK to return to their houses and now we are drinking a little wine and are all relieved to be alive. Some of us are not so lucky. My friend has just returned home to rest after digging with his bare hands in rubble at L'Aquila for the body of his girlfriend. He will return tomorrow to dig again.\"Daniele Kihlgren, hotel owner, Santo Stefano di Sessanio\"Everything is awful but at least we are alive. We were in our house in the suburbs of L'Aquila when the earthquake struck around 3.15-3.30am. It was awful; we didn't know what to do. It lasted about 20 seconds and everything was a mess, with all our things on the floor. Our flat is on the third floor and it was difficult to go downstairs because there were no lights. Luckily our car was parked outside and not in the garage, and we drove to a village about 10km from L'Aquila, where our other house was nearly destroyed.\"Graziella Fantasia, 60, an English teacher in L'Aquila\"There was a first tremor around a quarter to eleven and we considered going out, but we didn't as we had become so used to them. Then the top floor fell down on the lower one and the corridor was smashed. Our 18-year-old daughter got under the bed as she had been trained to do and we got out before the next big one. We'd lived in the house since 1977, a beautiful old palazzo built in 1703, and now it's destroyed. We will spend the night in someone's garden. I don't think I will be sleeping between four walls for some time.\"Marion Cadman, a teacher at the English school of L'Aquila\"When I left home I saw buildings all around that had collapsed. And then, looking down towards L'Aquila I saw a cloud of smoke rising from within the town that made it seem like the whole town had just sunk into the ground. Before I could get there people were asking [for] help. I began to dig and we got out my cousin, saved because a wardrobe fell across her and protected her. But my uncle, 63 and full of life, died under that rubble.\"Guido Liris, a doctor in the town of Pianola near L'Aquila", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Eyewitnesses describe Italy earthquake"},{"date": "2009-04-06T10:22:18Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rescue teams are searching for survivors after this morning's earthquake in central Italy, which has claimed at least 27 lives and destroyed or damaged thousands of homes, churches and other buildings.The earthquake struck 60 miles north east of Rome at 2.32am British time and is estimated to have been at a depth of 6.2 miles.The US Geological Survey (USGS) recorded the earthquake at magnitude 6.3, and said it was the result of movement along a fault line running north west to south east in the Apennine mountains.The USGS estimates that a population of 68,000 in L'Aquila will have experienced severe shaking, and ranked the potential damage to structures in the area as \"heavy\". A further 62,000 people are estimated to have felt strong or very strong shaking, with a moderate to heavy impact on buildings in the regions affected.The dense populations of Rome and Naples would have felt only light tremors from the earthquake, the geologists say.A magnitude 6.9 earthquake occurred 150 miles southeast of this morning's earthquake on 23 November 1980, with an estimated population of 252,000 exposed to severe shaking. The earthquake killed 2,483 people. In 1997, a magnitude 6 earthquake struck 50 miles north-northwest of this morning's quake, killing 11 and injuring more than 100. It destroyed around 80,000 homes in the Marche and Umbria regions.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Geology"], "title": "Earthquake strikes central Italy"},{"date": "2009-05-21T20:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "About 100,000 people from the earthquake-stricken city of L'Aquila, in central Italy, have applied for a grant from the authorities to rebuild their homes. However, the local authority's chief executive has noted an \"incongruity\": there appear to be only 70,000 \u00adpeople registered as living in and around the city.Massimiliano Cordeschi has told the state-run RAI radio broadcaster that the discrepancy is likely to hold up the \u00adcompensation payouts. Today the Senate cleared the way, for the disbursement in stages, of 100% of the cost of reconstructing or repairing homes damaged by the earthquake on 6 \u00a0April, which killed almost 300 people. But, stressed Cordeschi, \"a minimum of quick checks\" had to be made.He added: \"On the register there are X \u00a0number of citizens and the applications reveal Y number of people over and above X. We have to find out where they come from.\"Cordeschi said he estimated that the cost of an extra 30,000 grants would be about \u20ac2.4m (\u00a32.1m) a month.One possible explanation for the inconsistency was that people who moved away from L'Aquila to live in Rome and elsewhere had failed to change their official residence and were trying to tap in to taxpayer money for the repair of what were, in effect, second homes. People without an official address could account for a further discrepancy.But neither explanation would explain why so many people were getting state aid as earthquake victims.", "tags": ["Italy", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Discrepancy delays Italy earthquake payouts"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T17:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's government, which has already put several thousand soldiers on the streets of Italy, will tomorrow legalise vigilante patrols and set out the guidelines under which they will operate.The plans prompted an outcry from opposition politicians and police unions, but got a mixed reception from Italy's mayors, who must decide whether they want law enforcement volunteers in their towns. An overwhelming majority of those in favour run cities in the north, where the anti-immigrant Northern League has long argued for wider use of vigilantes.The interior minister, Roberto Maroni, a member of the Northern League, denied that the plan was to introduce vigilantism to Italy: \"The decree does not create [vigilante] patrols; it regulates them.\"After rejecting the scheme, Rome's mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a former neo-fascist, appears to have embraced it. The head of his council's security committee, Fabrizio Santori, said vigilantes in flurorescent jackets would be deployed in parks, outside schools and at tourist sites.Taking advantage of a gap in existing legislation, volunteers have formed groups to carry out patrols in cities including Milan, Padua, Parma and Bologna.Last month vigilante groups from the left and the right clashed violently in the Tuscan town of Massa Carrara.Maroni told the Corriere della Sera that the minimum age for vigilantes would be 18, not 25 as previously reported. A junior minister said the patrols must be on foot and have no more than three people, and that police- or military-style uniforms, and weapons, would be banned. \"Their only equipment [will be] a walkie-talkie that keeps them in contact with the local police or Carabinieri station,\" Alfredo Mantovano told La Stampa.The rules will restrict groups such as the Italian National Guard, which is being investigated by a prosecutor in Turin. The Guard, which claims 2,000 members, has a reconnaissance plane and a uniform, complete with armbands, reminiscent of the Nazi SA (Sturmabteilung).But one of the biggest existing groups, the Milan-based City Angels, which focuses on social work as much as crime prevention, expressed concern that the guidelines would be too restrictive.The leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, Dario Franceschini of the Democratic party, called the use of vigilantes \"demagogic and dangerous\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Opposition outcry as Italy legalises vigilante patrols"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T17:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's government, which has already put several thousand soldiers on the streets of Italy, will tomorrow legalise vigilante patrols and set out the guidelines under which they will operate.The plans prompted an outcry from opposition politicians and police unions, but got a mixed reception from Italy's mayors, who must decide whether they want law enforcement volunteers in their towns. An overwhelming majority of those in favour run cities in the north, where the anti-immigrant Northern League has long argued for wider use of vigilantes.The interior minister, Roberto Maroni, a member of the Northern League, denied that the plan was to introduce vigilantism to Italy: \"The decree does not create [vigilante] patrols; it regulates them.\"After rejecting the scheme, Rome's mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a former neo-fascist, appears to have embraced it. The head of his council's security committee, Fabrizio Santori, said vigilantes in flurorescent jackets would be deployed in parks, outside schools and at tourist sites.Taking advantage of a gap in existing legislation, volunteers have formed groups to carry out patrols in cities including Milan, Padua, Parma and Bologna.Last month vigilante groups from the left and the right clashed violently in the Tuscan town of Massa Carrara.Maroni told the Corriere della Sera that the minimum age for vigilantes would be 18, not 25 as previously reported. A junior minister said the patrols must be on foot and have no more than three people, and that police- or military-style uniforms, and weapons, would be banned. \"Their only equipment [will be] a walkie-talkie that keeps them in contact with the local police or Carabinieri station,\" Alfredo Mantovano told La Stampa.The rules will restrict groups such as the Italian National Guard, which is being investigated by a prosecutor in Turin. The Guard, which claims 2,000 members, has a reconnaissance plane and a uniform, complete with armbands, reminiscent of the Nazi SA (Sturmabteilung).But one of the biggest existing groups, the Milan-based City Angels, which focuses on social work as much as crime prevention, expressed concern that the guidelines would be too restrictive.The leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, Dario Franceschini of the Democratic party, called the use of vigilantes \"demagogic and dangerous\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Opposition outcry as Italy legalises vigilante patrols"},{"date": "2009-07-19T17:36:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a country where speeding is a national sport, Italian traffic police are used to hearing the most colourful of excuses from drivers.But the patrol that pulled over a Ford Fiesta on Friday doing 112mph was surprised to find at the wheel a 56-year-old nun who claimed she needed to be at the pope's side after the pontiff lost his balance in the bathroom and broke his wrist.In the back were two fellow Salesian nuns, aged 65 and 78, who had jumped in the car in Turin when news broke of Pope Benedict's fall near Aosta, where he is spending his summer holiday.\"The police were shocked to find three nuns of a certain age in the Fiesta,\" confessed the nun, named only as AM. \"But we were afraid of getting there late. I know you shouldn't go so fast, but the news of his Holiness's injury had made us truly anxious.\"The pope underwent surgery on Friday and was able to hold a blessing on Sunday with his right wrist in plaster.The police chose not to forgive the nun, pointing out that she was 30mph over the limit. They suspended her licence for a month and issued a \u20ac375 (\u00a3323) fine. But AM is a \"determined sort\", said her lawyer, Anna Orecchioni.\"She is planning to appeal and we think we can invoke the 'state of necessity' in the law that allows speeding,\" Orecchioni said.Orecchioni has become a point of reference for members of the religious community in trouble with traffic police. She is defending a priest stopped for drink-driving who claimed communion wine he sipped at four consecutive masses pushed him over the limit.A Muslim imam in Rome defended by Orecchioni has been given his licence back after she convinced a judge that asthma medicine had given him twice the legal limit of alcohol.", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Italy", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Nun fined for 112mph Italy mercy dash"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T17:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's government, which has already put several thousand soldiers on the streets of Italy, will tomorrow legalise vigilante patrols and set out the guidelines under which they will operate.The plans prompted an outcry from opposition politicians and police unions, but got a mixed reception from Italy's mayors, who must decide whether they want law enforcement volunteers in their towns. An overwhelming majority of those in favour run cities in the north, where the anti-immigrant Northern League has long argued for wider use of vigilantes.The interior minister, Roberto Maroni, a member of the Northern League, denied that the plan was to introduce vigilantism to Italy: \"The decree does not create [vigilante] patrols; it regulates them.\"After rejecting the scheme, Rome's mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a former neo-fascist, appears to have embraced it. The head of his council's security committee, Fabrizio Santori, said vigilantes in flurorescent jackets would be deployed in parks, outside schools and at tourist sites.Taking advantage of a gap in existing legislation, volunteers have formed groups to carry out patrols in cities including Milan, Padua, Parma and Bologna.Last month vigilante groups from the left and the right clashed violently in the Tuscan town of Massa Carrara.Maroni told the Corriere della Sera that the minimum age for vigilantes would be 18, not 25 as previously reported. A junior minister said the patrols must be on foot and have no more than three people, and that police- or military-style uniforms, and weapons, would be banned. \"Their only equipment [will be] a walkie-talkie that keeps them in contact with the local police or Carabinieri station,\" Alfredo Mantovano told La Stampa.The rules will restrict groups such as the Italian National Guard, which is being investigated by a prosecutor in Turin. The Guard, which claims 2,000 members, has a reconnaissance plane and a uniform, complete with armbands, reminiscent of the Nazi SA (Sturmabteilung).But one of the biggest existing groups, the Milan-based City Angels, which focuses on social work as much as crime prevention, expressed concern that the guidelines would be too restrictive.The leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, Dario Franceschini of the Democratic party, called the use of vigilantes \"demagogic and dangerous\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Opposition outcry as Italy legalises vigilante patrols"},{"date": "2009-07-19T17:36:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a country where speeding is a national sport, Italian traffic police are used to hearing the most colourful of excuses from drivers.But the patrol that pulled over a Ford Fiesta on Friday doing 112mph was surprised to find at the wheel a 56-year-old nun who claimed she needed to be at the pope's side after the pontiff lost his balance in the bathroom and broke his wrist.In the back were two fellow Salesian nuns, aged 65 and 78, who had jumped in the car in Turin when news broke of Pope Benedict's fall near Aosta, where he is spending his summer holiday.\"The police were shocked to find three nuns of a certain age in the Fiesta,\" confessed the nun, named only as AM. \"But we were afraid of getting there late. I know you shouldn't go so fast, but the news of his Holiness's injury had made us truly anxious.\"The pope underwent surgery on Friday and was able to hold a blessing on Sunday with his right wrist in plaster.The police chose not to forgive the nun, pointing out that she was 30mph over the limit. They suspended her licence for a month and issued a \u20ac375 (\u00a3323) fine. But AM is a \"determined sort\", said her lawyer, Anna Orecchioni.\"She is planning to appeal and we think we can invoke the 'state of necessity' in the law that allows speeding,\" Orecchioni said.Orecchioni has become a point of reference for members of the religious community in trouble with traffic police. She is defending a priest stopped for drink-driving who claimed communion wine he sipped at four consecutive masses pushed him over the limit.A Muslim imam in Rome defended by Orecchioni has been given his licence back after she convinced a judge that asthma medicine had given him twice the legal limit of alcohol.", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Italy", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Nun fined for 112mph Italy mercy dash"},{"date": "2009-08-21T18:07:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian coastal patrol vessels were searching the Mediterranean today for the bodies of 73 African migrants believed to have died on a dinghy that ran out of fuel during an attempted crossing to Italy from Libya.Five Eritreans rescued in the dinghy off the Italian island of Lampedusa have told officials they jettisoned passengers who perished for lack of food and water in their three weeks at sea, during which time 10 vessels spotted them. Only one stopped.Laura Boldrini, a UN spokeswoman, said commercial vessels were \"not encouraged to save migrants following episodes such as the four-day row in April between Italy and Malta over who should take in 140 migrants picked up by a Turkish vessel\".Avvenire, the newspaper of the Italian bishops' conference, stated in a front page editorial today that the shunning of the migrants at sea was akin to ignoring the deportation of Jews during the second world war. \"Then it was terror and totalitarianism which shut their eyes. Today it is quiet indifference, if not irritated distaste,\" it wrote.Maltese officials alerted Italian counterparts to the migrants after a Maltese patrol found them at sea, a Maltese official said. \"The assistance required by international obligations was given,\" he added.One Eritrean said they were handed fuel and lifejackets during the encounter with the Maltese, two days before the Italians picked them up. \"One of the crew turned on the motor because we were too weak, and then indicated the route we were to follow. Then, mindless of our conditions, they left,\" said the survivor.Italian news agency Adnkronos quoted an unnamed Maltese official as saying the migrants had not asked to be rescued, a claim denied by the migrants.Italy and Libya are running joint sea patrols which have turned back 1,000 migrants since May. UN officials argue genuine asylum seekers are being returned with no chance to apply for asylum.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "Eritrea", "Water transport", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "73 African migrants die at sea trying to reach Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T17:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's government, which has already put several thousand soldiers on the streets of Italy, will tomorrow legalise vigilante patrols and set out the guidelines under which they will operate.The plans prompted an outcry from opposition politicians and police unions, but got a mixed reception from Italy's mayors, who must decide whether they want law enforcement volunteers in their towns. An overwhelming majority of those in favour run cities in the north, where the anti-immigrant Northern League has long argued for wider use of vigilantes.The interior minister, Roberto Maroni, a member of the Northern League, denied that the plan was to introduce vigilantism to Italy: \"The decree does not create [vigilante] patrols; it regulates them.\"After rejecting the scheme, Rome's mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a former neo-fascist, appears to have embraced it. The head of his council's security committee, Fabrizio Santori, said vigilantes in flurorescent jackets would be deployed in parks, outside schools and at tourist sites.Taking advantage of a gap in existing legislation, volunteers have formed groups to carry out patrols in cities including Milan, Padua, Parma and Bologna.Last month vigilante groups from the left and the right clashed violently in the Tuscan town of Massa Carrara.Maroni told the Corriere della Sera that the minimum age for vigilantes would be 18, not 25 as previously reported. A junior minister said the patrols must be on foot and have no more than three people, and that police- or military-style uniforms, and weapons, would be banned. \"Their only equipment [will be] a walkie-talkie that keeps them in contact with the local police or Carabinieri station,\" Alfredo Mantovano told La Stampa.The rules will restrict groups such as the Italian National Guard, which is being investigated by a prosecutor in Turin. The Guard, which claims 2,000 members, has a reconnaissance plane and a uniform, complete with armbands, reminiscent of the Nazi SA (Sturmabteilung).But one of the biggest existing groups, the Milan-based City Angels, which focuses on social work as much as crime prevention, expressed concern that the guidelines would be too restrictive.The leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, Dario Franceschini of the Democratic party, called the use of vigilantes \"demagogic and dangerous\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Opposition outcry as Italy legalises vigilante patrols"},{"date": "2009-07-19T17:36:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a country where speeding is a national sport, Italian traffic police are used to hearing the most colourful of excuses from drivers.But the patrol that pulled over a Ford Fiesta on Friday doing 112mph was surprised to find at the wheel a 56-year-old nun who claimed she needed to be at the pope's side after the pontiff lost his balance in the bathroom and broke his wrist.In the back were two fellow Salesian nuns, aged 65 and 78, who had jumped in the car in Turin when news broke of Pope Benedict's fall near Aosta, where he is spending his summer holiday.\"The police were shocked to find three nuns of a certain age in the Fiesta,\" confessed the nun, named only as AM. \"But we were afraid of getting there late. I know you shouldn't go so fast, but the news of his Holiness's injury had made us truly anxious.\"The pope underwent surgery on Friday and was able to hold a blessing on Sunday with his right wrist in plaster.The police chose not to forgive the nun, pointing out that she was 30mph over the limit. They suspended her licence for a month and issued a \u20ac375 (\u00a3323) fine. But AM is a \"determined sort\", said her lawyer, Anna Orecchioni.\"She is planning to appeal and we think we can invoke the 'state of necessity' in the law that allows speeding,\" Orecchioni said.Orecchioni has become a point of reference for members of the religious community in trouble with traffic police. She is defending a priest stopped for drink-driving who claimed communion wine he sipped at four consecutive masses pushed him over the limit.A Muslim imam in Rome defended by Orecchioni has been given his licence back after she convinced a judge that asthma medicine had given him twice the legal limit of alcohol.", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Italy", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Nun fined for 112mph Italy mercy dash"},{"date": "2009-08-21T18:07:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian coastal patrol vessels were searching the Mediterranean today for the bodies of 73 African migrants believed to have died on a dinghy that ran out of fuel during an attempted crossing to Italy from Libya.Five Eritreans rescued in the dinghy off the Italian island of Lampedusa have told officials they jettisoned passengers who perished for lack of food and water in their three weeks at sea, during which time 10 vessels spotted them. Only one stopped.Laura Boldrini, a UN spokeswoman, said commercial vessels were \"not encouraged to save migrants following episodes such as the four-day row in April between Italy and Malta over who should take in 140 migrants picked up by a Turkish vessel\".Avvenire, the newspaper of the Italian bishops' conference, stated in a front page editorial today that the shunning of the migrants at sea was akin to ignoring the deportation of Jews during the second world war. \"Then it was terror and totalitarianism which shut their eyes. Today it is quiet indifference, if not irritated distaste,\" it wrote.Maltese officials alerted Italian counterparts to the migrants after a Maltese patrol found them at sea, a Maltese official said. \"The assistance required by international obligations was given,\" he added.One Eritrean said they were handed fuel and lifejackets during the encounter with the Maltese, two days before the Italians picked them up. \"One of the crew turned on the motor because we were too weak, and then indicated the route we were to follow. Then, mindless of our conditions, they left,\" said the survivor.Italian news agency Adnkronos quoted an unnamed Maltese official as saying the migrants had not asked to be rescued, a claim denied by the migrants.Italy and Libya are running joint sea patrols which have turned back 1,000 migrants since May. UN officials argue genuine asylum seekers are being returned with no chance to apply for asylum.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "Eritrea", "Water transport", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "73 African migrants die at sea trying to reach Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-31T17:39:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Vatican and Catholic politicians today reacted with dismay to a decision by Italy's drugs agency to approve limited use of the abortion pill Mifepristone, which has been available in much of the rest of Europe since the 1990s.Senior Vatican officials said women who took the pill would be excommunicating themselves, as would doctors who prescribed it and nurses who administered it. Because of the high proportion of conscientious objectors to abortion in the Italian health service \u2013 some 70% \u2013 it is likely that use of the pill will be circumscribed.After a reportedly heated four-hour session that ended late on Thursday, the board of the Italian pharmaceuticals agency, AIFA, voted by four to one to approve Mifepristone. But it stipulated that the pill should only be administered in hospital during the first seven weeks of pregnancy.Also known as RU-486, Mifepristone had already been in use in some Italian regions on a trial basis.Archbishop Rino Fisichella, head of the pope's thinktank on bioethical issues, the Pontifical Academy for Life, said: \"The fact of taking a pill may be less traumatic for a woman, but it does not change the substance. It is still abortion.\"He added that the consequences for a Catholic \u2013 automatic excommunication \u2013 were \"the same as those for surgical abortion\". To the continuing dismay of the Vatican, abortion has been available on demand in Italy since 1978, though usually only in the first 90 days of pregnancy.For Silvio Berlusconi's government and its supporters, this was a delicate moment for any announcement bearing on sexual ethics. Recordings purportedly made by a prostitute who claims that she spent the night with Italy's 72-year-old married prime minister have focused public attention on his own apparently wide-ranging sex life. In one, a businessman who allegedly supplied women for parties at Berlusconi's home can be heard warning one of them that the prime minister never uses a condom.Berlusconi had no immediate comment to make on the agency's decision. The reaction of other Italian politicians cut across party boundaries, though most of the censure came from the right, dominated by the governing Freedom People movement (PdL).A spokeswoman for Rome's formerly neo-fascist mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a leading member of the PdL, said: \"Infanticide is, in fact, being legalised for the modest sum of \u20ac14 a tablet.\" But a minister in Berlusconi's cabinet, Stefania Prestigiacomo, said she endorsed the use of Mifepristone \"under control in a hospital\".Livia Turco, health minister in the previous, centre-left government when the trials began two years ago, said the drug had been subjected to a \"rigorous investigative process during which the medical aspects and the compatibility of [Mifepristone] with Italian legislation were scrupulously evaluated\". But Paola Binetti, a member of the same party, sharply criticised the approval of what she termed \"do-it-yourself abortion\".Mifepristone has other medical uses and can be used as an emergency contraceptive if taken after sex but before ovulation. Its active compound was discovered by French researchers in 1980. The drug is marketed in the United States as Mifeprex and in the rest of the world as Mifegyne. The drug is not legal in Ireland or Poland.", "tags": ["Abortion", "Italy", "Catholicism", "Women", "Life and style", "World news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Vatican protests as Italy approves use of abortion pill"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's economy is suffering badly from the credit crunch, with economic output predicted to fall 5.2% this year, even faster than in Britain. But, unlike the UK, property prices have remained relatively stable, because the country never gorged on mortgage debt in the style of the British, or over-developed in the manner of the Spanish.Traditionally, Italians have fewer and smaller mortgages than in the UK, and the interbancario system means it is unusual for more than one lender to give a mortgage or loan to an individual. This cautious approach led to much smaller property booms in the 1990s and 2000s \u2013 and fewer problems in the past two years.This year's annual survey of international property markets by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors found Italy was one of the few countries where prices had not fallen over the previous 12 months. \"House prices have not risen by anything like those in many other EU countries, growing by about 40% in real terms between 1998 and 2007,\" it said.\"There was a surge between 2000 and 2004, but that petered out well before the turnaround in other countries. Weak growth, poor consumer confidence, limited demographic pressures and a responsive supply side have all contributed to the limited performance of the market.\"It adds Italians tend not to buy and sell property in the frenetic style of the British, moving, on average, just once every 20 years. But it says the official figures for housebuilding are unreliable, as there is so much illegal building.Estate agents agree there has been little of the boom and bust seen elsewhere in Europe. \"The Italian property market has not behaved as a mirror image of the UK or Spain. There hasn't been a wholesale collapse and no one was predicting one in 2008, nor are they doing so now,\" according to Paul Hudson of The Property Finders, a search company working for clients who want to buy in Italy.\"The second, or holiday-home market has, at least in some areas, performed even better than the first house or 'prima casa' market. This year it is more in the buyer's favour, with longer selling times and greater leverage on discounts. But don't expect to go bargain-hunting and find vendors throwing property at your feet.\"In the mainstream market for Italian owner-occupiers, prices are typically down 10%. \"As a general rule, the cities have suffered most, with properties that sold at the top of the market in the last few years not maintaining their values,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property, a London-based specialist estate agent. In terms of holiday home regions, \"Tuscany prices have not come down much, if at all [although] there tends to be more room for negotiation than a year ago\".Most Britons buy around the Lakes as well as Umbria and the Aosta Valley, with a few purchases in Rome or Milan. Venice has some of the world's most expensive real estate: expect to pay at least \u00a3500,000 for a one-bed apartment. But Tuscany is the most sought-after, and its international appeal has triggered a backlash from locals.Legambiente, an eco-pressure group that has existed for two decades, has started campaigning against \"rivers of cement\" appearing in the countryside and some historic Tuscan communities, as increasing numbers of holiday homes are built.Jenny Gale, from the West Midlands, has lived in Lucca, a Tuscan hill town, for 19 years, and works for an estate agency. She says people only used to visit Lucca en route to rented Tuscan villas in rural areas, but now, like many towns, it has its share of second homes. \"It's a destination in its own right now, since it has the classic features of a cultural centre with year-round appeal. As a result, there is a healthy lettings market,\" she says.One factor worth considering if you are buying property as an investment is Italy's shrinking population. The number of Italians will fall 15% by 2050, particularly in the north, and the Rics survey says that without immigration, \"significant housing surpluses\" may arise. That suggests house prices will have little long-term support.Remember that if you take the plunge and buy, it is customary to back up an accepted offer with a deposit \u2013 between 10% and 20% \u2013 paid through the seller's estate agent, subject to the deal going through after the usual checks. As with some other mainland European countries, be sure to check that outstanding debts connected with the property are fully paid, otherwise they will transfer to you.Kamran Mirshahi, who runs Apulia Properties, says buyers should factor in 12% of the purchase price to cover taxes and fees, rising to 15% where new properties are concerned.This tends to be the most popular area for British buyers, thanks to a mix of culture, food, wine and budget flights to easy-access airports such as Malpensa and Pisa, which have daily services via a number of carriers.Farmhouses with swimming pools and views are the staple purchase for well-heeled Brits in this area, while estate agents say that renovation projects have become less popular (and wrecks are now relatively hard to find anyway).Discounts of 10% can be negotiated, but deals are difficult to conclude because buyers are either tightening their belts or finding mortgages very hard to secure.\"Until a year ago the real bread and butter in Tuscany and Umbria were apartments in renovated farm complexes, the 'borghi'. It appears these have lost popularity,\" says Gemma Knowles of GK Italian Property.This two-bed house is at Borgo Il Poderone in southern Tuscany, looking to the Maremma coast some 40 minutes away. It is surrounded by a private garden and there is a shared swimming pool. Originally \u20ac250,000, it is now on at \u20ac230,000 (\u00a3196,000) with GK Italian Property or call 020 7993 2967.Traditionally, Britons have concentrated their interest around Lake Maggiore and Lake Como. Thanks to improved road transport, Maggiore is now under an hour from Milan, so resorts that a decade ago were mid-priced \u2013 such as Stresa, Baveno and Ghiffa \u2013 are now higher priced.Thanks to relatively strong demand from a lot of Italians, the local market has remained relatively buoyant, and prices are only 5% down in the past two years. Celebrity-strewn Lake Como is more varied. There are beautiful villages and resorts, including Menaggio and Bellagio where prices seem to have remained static for the older period houses, but go a little more towards the Alps and prices are down maybe 10%, according to estate agents. But if you are willing to settle for a modern or new-build home, closer to the lake, there are reductions of up to 15%.This flat is in a 16-apartment complex at Sala Comacina overlooking Lake Como. It is being sold fully furnished and with shared access to a communal swimming pool. Down from \u20ac310,000 to \u20ac270,000 (\u00a3230,000) from Casa Travella, or call 01322 660988.The heel of Italy enjoyed low prices relative to the rest of the country until it was discovered by Ryanair, which started flights from Stansted to Bari and Brindisi in 2004.In the months running up to the launch, prices paid for the cone-shaped \"trulli\" houses unique to the region doubled or even tripled. Since then, they have largely stagnated.Kamran Mirshahi of Apulia Properties says: \"They caught the imagination of buyers \u2013 and magazine editors. But that wore off as the disadvantages became apparent \u2013 they can be complicated to restore and have very small windows. Now people are more open-minded and looking at some very good value villas.This three-bed restored trullo is in a panoramic location, a short distance from Fasano and the sea, but will probably require extensive redecoration to suit a British buyer.On the market for \u20ac265,000 (\u00a3225,000) at Apulia Properties, 020 8858 9258. There is additional accommodation in a converted stalla, currently a one-bed apartment with kitchen, bathroom and cellar. The land extends to around 8,000 sq m.This is Italy's central region, bordered by Tuscany to the west but, in property terms, it is significantly less expensive because it is less easily accessible.It used to be where \"cheap\" wrecks could be found for \u00a330,000 or less and renovated with cheap local labour but, especially since the credit crunch, farmers have wised up and even ruins are expensive.For ready-to-live-in farmhouses and villas, prices have dropped about 10% to 15% in the past two years, especially around Perugia, Terni, Narni and Orvieto. If you are buying with a view to letting out, this could be your region \u2013 it is more popular with renters because it is lower cost.This three-bed apartment, close to the hilltop village of Panicale, is on two levels in a renovated farmhouse, and packed with features such as terracotta flooring, wooden beams and original fireplaces. There is a shared swimming pool and large gardens. The price has dropped from \u20ac450,000 to \u20ac420,000 (\u00a3358,000) from GK Italian Property, GK Italian Property, or call 020 7993 2967.Next week: Spain", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Property", "House prices", "Money"], "title": "Buying property abroad: Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"This is the way I'm made,\" said the host of today's G8 summit, amid allegations that he entertained escorts at his homes in Rome and on Sardinia. For those who do not follow the daily instalments of the Silvio Berlusconi soap opera, those allegations come after his estranged wife, Veronica, accused him of picking showgirls as election candidates and attending the 18th birthday party of an aspiring actress and model from Naples. The thrice-elected prime minister continued: \"People take me as they find me. And Italians want me.\" And they do. His popularity has only slipped six points since his wife said she was filing for divorce. It currently stands at 49%. Which raises the question: if Italy wants Mr Berlusconi as its prime minister, should the G8 want Italy?True, it is harder these days to define the values of the industrialised rich. The G20 is almost certainly a more fitting forum for global matters such as a reserve currency, climate change and trade. The hard question is whether Italy, after a decade of economic drift, now fits the basic requirements for a seat at any international table. Italy ranks 76th on the Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, which it defines as the freedom to work, consume and invest unconstrained by the state. That is behind such denizens of liberalism as Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Madagascar. Transparency International's corruption index places Italy 55th on its list of the world's least corrupt countries. Italian politicians are seen as less trustworthy than those in Pakistan, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Senegal and Sierra Leone.So, when the leaders of the world's largest economies meet today - at Mr Berlusconi's insistence - in an earthquake zone (the stricken city of L'Aquila is still experiencing aftershocks), they are entitled to ask themselves where they have landed - in a first-world country or a third-world one. To judge Italy by the standards of economic freedom, corruption and freedom of the media, the answer is not obvious. Mr Berlusconi is the symptom but not necessarily the entire cause of his country's drift. Italians are not scandalised by him. They are dismayed about being criticised in the foreign press as a result of his antics, but they are not calling for the man himself to go. Other European countries have coped with charismatic populists. France had a heavy dose of Nicolas Sarkozy in his bling phase, until the French said \"\u00e7a suffit\" and the president changed tack. But that is not happening in an Italy which secretly admires the agility of its leaders in escaping from the tightest of political corners. Until Italians start demanding serious standards from their leaders, the country is perhaps not the best venue for serious world summits.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "G8", "Italy", "European Union", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Unfit for summitry | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-08T09:46:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Much to the horror of my Italian boss, I was recruited for my job in Rome through an internet job-board. \"But you don't even know her!\" was apparently the anguished cry. Fortunately my immediate supervisor, an Italian-Australian, could persuade my boss that I had the requisite skills and had been interviewed. I don't think my boss ever read my CV.Who you know is one of the fundamental rules of working in Italy. Personal contacts and networks are crucial for hiring and doing business, which is why my boss was appalled that they'd had to resort to the faceless internet to find a suitable candidate. One of the quickest and most traditional routes into a job is through personal recommendation \u2014 a practice that extends into all aspects of life in Italy.My contract came after weeks of uncertainty, by which time I'd already decided to move to Italy. I realised much later that a lengthy wait to see how the market was shaping up, followed by a last-minute decision, was typical of Italian working practice. If I'd grown tired of the delay and decided to go elsewhere, what then for the company? Italians don't really do 'what if' scenarios. They'd have found a 'solution', a last-minute workaround, regardless of how much stress that placed on the employees who'd then have to rush around trying to fix a staffing problem while simultaneously doing their own jobs. Our company was typical of a mid-sized operation, in that there was no designated HR person. Although this meant we were unfettered by performance reviews, or health and safety regulations, individual departments were also responsible for their own hiring and resource management.The lack of long-term planning and organisation is probably what gives Italy its reputation for chaos. \"If you want a typical 9-to-5 job, go and work for the Government Ministries\" my boss retorted to complaints that we had no time to plan or carry out projects adequately. Being dependent on the whims and last-minute changes to plan of salary-paying clients means that a British reliance on efficiency is practically redundant. Instead, the most prized skill is the flexibility to adapt to different circumstances at the last minute. You juggle your other ongoing projects and extend their deadlines in turn.The constant manoeuvring around obstacles means that, much like the driving in Italy, there are few fixed rules. But the one, sacred principle is that all workers, from CEOs to office interns, down tools at 1pm to have lunch. Part of permanent workers' pay is made up of luncheon vouchers, which are normally generous enough to get a decent-sized bowl of pasta. Lunchtimes are the great leveller in Italian companies: no matter how grand your title, you are an equal at the table and can freely discuss politics or company policy. Of course, once back behind your desk, you revert to hierarchy.", "tags": ["Guardian Careers"], "title": "The chaos of working in Italy"},{"date": "2009-08-07T17:59:52Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's government, which has already put several thousand soldiers on the streets of Italy, will tomorrow legalise vigilante patrols and set out the guidelines under which they will operate.The plans prompted an outcry from opposition politicians and police unions, but got a mixed reception from Italy's mayors, who must decide whether they want law enforcement volunteers in their towns. An overwhelming majority of those in favour run cities in the north, where the anti-immigrant Northern League has long argued for wider use of vigilantes.The interior minister, Roberto Maroni, a member of the Northern League, denied that the plan was to introduce vigilantism to Italy: \"The decree does not create [vigilante] patrols; it regulates them.\"After rejecting the scheme, Rome's mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a former neo-fascist, appears to have embraced it. The head of his council's security committee, Fabrizio Santori, said vigilantes in flurorescent jackets would be deployed in parks, outside schools and at tourist sites.Taking advantage of a gap in existing legislation, volunteers have formed groups to carry out patrols in cities including Milan, Padua, Parma and Bologna.Last month vigilante groups from the left and the right clashed violently in the Tuscan town of Massa Carrara.Maroni told the Corriere della Sera that the minimum age for vigilantes would be 18, not 25 as previously reported. A junior minister said the patrols must be on foot and have no more than three people, and that police- or military-style uniforms, and weapons, would be banned. \"Their only equipment [will be] a walkie-talkie that keeps them in contact with the local police or Carabinieri station,\" Alfredo Mantovano told La Stampa.The rules will restrict groups such as the Italian National Guard, which is being investigated by a prosecutor in Turin. The Guard, which claims 2,000 members, has a reconnaissance plane and a uniform, complete with armbands, reminiscent of the Nazi SA (Sturmabteilung).But one of the biggest existing groups, the Milan-based City Angels, which focuses on social work as much as crime prevention, expressed concern that the guidelines would be too restrictive.The leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, Dario Franceschini of the Democratic party, called the use of vigilantes \"demagogic and dangerous\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Opposition outcry as Italy legalises vigilante patrols"},{"date": "2009-07-19T17:36:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a country where speeding is a national sport, Italian traffic police are used to hearing the most colourful of excuses from drivers.But the patrol that pulled over a Ford Fiesta on Friday doing 112mph was surprised to find at the wheel a 56-year-old nun who claimed she needed to be at the pope's side after the pontiff lost his balance in the bathroom and broke his wrist.In the back were two fellow Salesian nuns, aged 65 and 78, who had jumped in the car in Turin when news broke of Pope Benedict's fall near Aosta, where he is spending his summer holiday.\"The police were shocked to find three nuns of a certain age in the Fiesta,\" confessed the nun, named only as AM. \"But we were afraid of getting there late. I know you shouldn't go so fast, but the news of his Holiness's injury had made us truly anxious.\"The pope underwent surgery on Friday and was able to hold a blessing on Sunday with his right wrist in plaster.The police chose not to forgive the nun, pointing out that she was 30mph over the limit. They suspended her licence for a month and issued a \u20ac375 (\u00a3323) fine. But AM is a \"determined sort\", said her lawyer, Anna Orecchioni.\"She is planning to appeal and we think we can invoke the 'state of necessity' in the law that allows speeding,\" Orecchioni said.Orecchioni has become a point of reference for members of the religious community in trouble with traffic police. She is defending a priest stopped for drink-driving who claimed communion wine he sipped at four consecutive masses pushed him over the limit.A Muslim imam in Rome defended by Orecchioni has been given his licence back after she convinced a judge that asthma medicine had given him twice the legal limit of alcohol.", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Italy", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Nun fined for 112mph Italy mercy dash"},{"date": "2009-08-21T18:07:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italian coastal patrol vessels were searching the Mediterranean today for the bodies of 73 African migrants believed to have died on a dinghy that ran out of fuel during an attempted crossing to Italy from Libya.Five Eritreans rescued in the dinghy off the Italian island of Lampedusa have told officials they jettisoned passengers who perished for lack of food and water in their three weeks at sea, during which time 10 vessels spotted them. Only one stopped.Laura Boldrini, a UN spokeswoman, said commercial vessels were \"not encouraged to save migrants following episodes such as the four-day row in April between Italy and Malta over who should take in 140 migrants picked up by a Turkish vessel\".Avvenire, the newspaper of the Italian bishops' conference, stated in a front page editorial today that the shunning of the migrants at sea was akin to ignoring the deportation of Jews during the second world war. \"Then it was terror and totalitarianism which shut their eyes. Today it is quiet indifference, if not irritated distaste,\" it wrote.Maltese officials alerted Italian counterparts to the migrants after a Maltese patrol found them at sea, a Maltese official said. \"The assistance required by international obligations was given,\" he added.One Eritrean said they were handed fuel and lifejackets during the encounter with the Maltese, two days before the Italians picked them up. \"One of the crew turned on the motor because we were too weak, and then indicated the route we were to follow. Then, mindless of our conditions, they left,\" said the survivor.Italian news agency Adnkronos quoted an unnamed Maltese official as saying the migrants had not asked to be rescued, a claim denied by the migrants.Italy and Libya are running joint sea patrols which have turned back 1,000 migrants since May. UN officials argue genuine asylum seekers are being returned with no chance to apply for asylum.", "tags": ["Italy", "Libya", "Eritrea", "Water transport", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "73 African migrants die at sea trying to reach Italy"},{"date": "2009-07-31T17:39:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Vatican and Catholic politicians today reacted with dismay to a decision by Italy's drugs agency to approve limited use of the abortion pill Mifepristone, which has been available in much of the rest of Europe since the 1990s.Senior Vatican officials said women who took the pill would be excommunicating themselves, as would doctors who prescribed it and nurses who administered it. Because of the high proportion of conscientious objectors to abortion in the Italian health service \u2013 some 70% \u2013 it is likely that use of the pill will be circumscribed.After a reportedly heated four-hour session that ended late on Thursday, the board of the Italian pharmaceuticals agency, AIFA, voted by four to one to approve Mifepristone. But it stipulated that the pill should only be administered in hospital during the first seven weeks of pregnancy.Also known as RU-486, Mifepristone had already been in use in some Italian regions on a trial basis.Archbishop Rino Fisichella, head of the pope's thinktank on bioethical issues, the Pontifical Academy for Life, said: \"The fact of taking a pill may be less traumatic for a woman, but it does not change the substance. It is still abortion.\"He added that the consequences for a Catholic \u2013 automatic excommunication \u2013 were \"the same as those for surgical abortion\". To the continuing dismay of the Vatican, abortion has been available on demand in Italy since 1978, though usually only in the first 90 days of pregnancy.For Silvio Berlusconi's government and its supporters, this was a delicate moment for any announcement bearing on sexual ethics. Recordings purportedly made by a prostitute who claims that she spent the night with Italy's 72-year-old married prime minister have focused public attention on his own apparently wide-ranging sex life. In one, a businessman who allegedly supplied women for parties at Berlusconi's home can be heard warning one of them that the prime minister never uses a condom.Berlusconi had no immediate comment to make on the agency's decision. The reaction of other Italian politicians cut across party boundaries, though most of the censure came from the right, dominated by the governing Freedom People movement (PdL).A spokeswoman for Rome's formerly neo-fascist mayor, Gianni Alemanno, a leading member of the PdL, said: \"Infanticide is, in fact, being legalised for the modest sum of \u20ac14 a tablet.\" But a minister in Berlusconi's cabinet, Stefania Prestigiacomo, said she endorsed the use of Mifepristone \"under control in a hospital\".Livia Turco, health minister in the previous, centre-left government when the trials began two years ago, said the drug had been subjected to a \"rigorous investigative process during which the medical aspects and the compatibility of [Mifepristone] with Italian legislation were scrupulously evaluated\". But Paola Binetti, a member of the same party, sharply criticised the approval of what she termed \"do-it-yourself abortion\".Mifepristone has other medical uses and can be used as an emergency contraceptive if taken after sex but before ovulation. Its active compound was discovered by French researchers in 1980. The drug is marketed in the United States as Mifeprex and in the rest of the world as Mifegyne. The drug is not legal in Ireland or Poland.", "tags": ["Abortion", "Italy", "Catholicism", "Women", "Life and style", "World news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Vatican protests as Italy approves use of abortion pill"},{"date": "2009-07-14T17:30:18Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Of all wedding customs, the bouquet toss is arguably the most controversial. Described on marthastewart.com as the \"suspenseful moment when the single women gather behind the bride - to see who will be the next to get married\", it is scarcely a favourite with feminists.No one, though, has argued it could prompt life-threatening injuries. Until now. Isidoro Pensieri, 44, was today recovering at a hospital in Pisa from serious facial and head injuries and two broken legs, sustained when the ultra-light aircraft in which he was travelling crashed near a restaurant at which a wedding reception was being held.Martha Stewart recommends that to \"get the blossoms to the wallflowers\", the bride should stand \"on a balcony, the top of a staircase or a chair\". But at this particular wedding in the Tuscan countryside, it was decided to make what proved to be an imprudent break with tradition.Pensieri was entrusted with the bouquet so that he could cast it dashingly into the outstretched arms of the unmarried female guests as the plane swooped by. According to Italian news agency reports, however, the flowers disappeared into the tail rotor, causing an explosion in the motor and pitching the ultra-light into a dive. After just missing a hostel in which some 50 young people were gathered, the aircraft plunged to earth in a wood.The pilot, 61 year-old Luciano Nannelli, escaped unhurt from the crash, which happened near the town of Suvereto, near Livorno.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Botched bouquet toss causes plane crash in Italy"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-11-05T17:10:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It's hard to dispute the claim of many Italians that in banning the crucifix from their schools the European court of human rights is assaulting Italian identity. This is a multifarious, rapidly transforming world, and Italy needs to embrace multiculturalism as much as any other nation. However, nobody who has ever looked at any Italian art can seriously question the depth, richness, and popularity of this culture's relationship with the cross. One of my favourite paintings in London's National Gallery is the Mond Crucifixion, painted by the young Raphael. I love its silver moon and gold sun with their magical faces in the blue sky. But at the centre of the tall painting is the figure of Christ on a wooden cross in the Italian countryside. Again and again, in some of the most beautiful images in the world, Italian artists and their audience have imagined the cross being brought home like this.  I hope human rights inspectors don't visit the monk's cells at San Marco in Florence, where in the 15th-century Fra Angelico and his assistants painted one fresco after another of Christ on the cross, stark and isolated, to provoke contemplation of the Passion. In the same monastery, you can see relics of Savonarola, the fierce prophet who encouraged his followers to meditate on that mystery. One of Savonarola's enthusiasts was Michelangelo, whose youthful carving of a crucifix has become an object of some dispute. But Michelangelo was working in an already ancient tradition. The floods in Florence in 1966 severely damaged one of the oldest and greatest images of the cross in Italian art, by Cimabue in Santa Croce. The famous cross by the great 15th-century architect Brunelleschi in the same city's Santa Maria Novella has been more fortunate. Whatever you think of Catholicism, it has generated some beautiful art. In Italy, that art is so deeply woven into a living culture that to bland it out is to wage war on human rights. I think this is an ugly attack on a cultural fabric rightly admired all over the world.", "tags": ["Art and design", "Culture", "Italy", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Let Italy and its art keep the cross | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-11-05T17:10:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It's hard to dispute the claim of many Italians that in banning the crucifix from their schools the European court of human rights is assaulting Italian identity. This is a multifarious, rapidly transforming world, and Italy needs to embrace multiculturalism as much as any other nation. However, nobody who has ever looked at any Italian art can seriously question the depth, richness, and popularity of this culture's relationship with the cross. One of my favourite paintings in London's National Gallery is the Mond Crucifixion, painted by the young Raphael. I love its silver moon and gold sun with their magical faces in the blue sky. But at the centre of the tall painting is the figure of Christ on a wooden cross in the Italian countryside. Again and again, in some of the most beautiful images in the world, Italian artists and their audience have imagined the cross being brought home like this.  I hope human rights inspectors don't visit the monk's cells at San Marco in Florence, where in the 15th-century Fra Angelico and his assistants painted one fresco after another of Christ on the cross, stark and isolated, to provoke contemplation of the Passion. In the same monastery, you can see relics of Savonarola, the fierce prophet who encouraged his followers to meditate on that mystery. One of Savonarola's enthusiasts was Michelangelo, whose youthful carving of a crucifix has become an object of some dispute. But Michelangelo was working in an already ancient tradition. The floods in Florence in 1966 severely damaged one of the oldest and greatest images of the cross in Italian art, by Cimabue in Santa Croce. The famous cross by the great 15th-century architect Brunelleschi in the same city's Santa Maria Novella has been more fortunate. Whatever you think of Catholicism, it has generated some beautiful art. In Italy, that art is so deeply woven into a living culture that to bland it out is to wage war on human rights. I think this is an ugly attack on a cultural fabric rightly admired all over the world.", "tags": ["Art and design", "Culture", "Italy", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Let Italy and its art keep the cross | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2009-11-03T19:11:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There was uproar in Italy today over a ruling by the European court of human rights that the crucifixes that hang in most Italian classrooms are a violation of religious and educational freedoms.The seven judges, whose decision could prompt a Europe-wide review of the use of religious symbols on public premises, said state schools had to \"observe confessional neutrality\".Except on the far left, the ruling met with condemnation among Italian politicians and was denounced by the Vatican. Silvio Berlusconi's education minister, Maria Stella Gelmini, said: \"No one, not even some ideologically motivated European court, will succeed in rubbing out our identity.\"A Vatican spokesman, Federico Lombardi, said the crucifix was a fundamental sign of the importance of religious values in Italian history and culture, and was a symbol of unity and welcoming for all of humanity, not one of exclusion.A European court had no right intervening in such a profoundly Italian matter, he said, adding: \"It seems as if the court wanted to ignore the role of Christianity in forming Europe's identity, which was and remains essential.\"The ruling marked the end of an eight-year battle by a Finnish-born mother, Soile Lautsi. She took her cause to court after failing to get crucifixes removed from the school at which her two children were being taught at a town in north-east Italy.Lautsi appealed to Strasbourg three years ago when her case was thrown out by Italy's constitutional court.Although more than 7% of Italy's population is now of immigrant origin, multiculturalism has made few inroads and most Italians argue passionately, as did their government's advocate in Strasbourg, that the crucifix is a symbol of national identity.The court disagreed. \"The presence of the crucifix could easily be interpreted by pupils of all ages as a religious sign, and they would feel that they were being educated in a school environment bearing the stamp of a given religion,\" it ruled, ordering the Italian state to pay Lautsi \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,476) in damages.Classroom crucifixes were made compulsory by two laws in the 1920s when Italy was a fascist state.They have been applied less rigorously since 1984, when Catholicism ceased to be the state religion.One government minister, Roberto Calderoli, of the Northern League, said yesterday: \"The European court has trodden on our rights, our culture, our history, our traditions and our values.\"Claudio Scajola, a member of Berlusconi's Freedom People party, said: \"The crucifix is a universal symbol of love, meekness and peace. Preventing it from being displayed is an act of violence against the deep-seated feelings of the Italian people and all persons of goodwill.\"The mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, said he was flabbergasted. And the new, ex-communist leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, Pierluigi Bersani, protested: \"An ancient tradition like the crucifix cannot be offensive to anyone.\"On the Facebook website, 23,000 people signed up to two pages opposed to the court's decision within hours of the news breaking.The government's lawyer said he would seek leave to appeal to the Strasbourg court's 17-member Grand Chamber. If his petition is rejected, or if an appeal is subsequently thrown out, then Italy would be obliged to comply.", "tags": ["Italy", "European Union", "Human rights", "Catholicism", "Religion", "World news", "European court of human rights", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Human rights ruling against classroom crucifixes angers Italy"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-11-05T17:10:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It's hard to dispute the claim of many Italians that in banning the crucifix from their schools the European court of human rights is assaulting Italian identity. This is a multifarious, rapidly transforming world, and Italy needs to embrace multiculturalism as much as any other nation. However, nobody who has ever looked at any Italian art can seriously question the depth, richness, and popularity of this culture's relationship with the cross. One of my favourite paintings in London's National Gallery is the Mond Crucifixion, painted by the young Raphael. I love its silver moon and gold sun with their magical faces in the blue sky. But at the centre of the tall painting is the figure of Christ on a wooden cross in the Italian countryside. Again and again, in some of the most beautiful images in the world, Italian artists and their audience have imagined the cross being brought home like this.  I hope human rights inspectors don't visit the monk's cells at San Marco in Florence, where in the 15th-century Fra Angelico and his assistants painted one fresco after another of Christ on the cross, stark and isolated, to provoke contemplation of the Passion. In the same monastery, you can see relics of Savonarola, the fierce prophet who encouraged his followers to meditate on that mystery. One of Savonarola's enthusiasts was Michelangelo, whose youthful carving of a crucifix has become an object of some dispute. But Michelangelo was working in an already ancient tradition. The floods in Florence in 1966 severely damaged one of the oldest and greatest images of the cross in Italian art, by Cimabue in Santa Croce. The famous cross by the great 15th-century architect Brunelleschi in the same city's Santa Maria Novella has been more fortunate. Whatever you think of Catholicism, it has generated some beautiful art. In Italy, that art is so deeply woven into a living culture that to bland it out is to wage war on human rights. I think this is an ugly attack on a cultural fabric rightly admired all over the world.", "tags": ["Art and design", "Culture", "Italy", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Let Italy and its art keep the cross | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2009-11-03T19:11:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There was uproar in Italy today over a ruling by the European court of human rights that the crucifixes that hang in most Italian classrooms are a violation of religious and educational freedoms.The seven judges, whose decision could prompt a Europe-wide review of the use of religious symbols on public premises, said state schools had to \"observe confessional neutrality\".Except on the far left, the ruling met with condemnation among Italian politicians and was denounced by the Vatican. Silvio Berlusconi's education minister, Maria Stella Gelmini, said: \"No one, not even some ideologically motivated European court, will succeed in rubbing out our identity.\"A Vatican spokesman, Federico Lombardi, said the crucifix was a fundamental sign of the importance of religious values in Italian history and culture, and was a symbol of unity and welcoming for all of humanity, not one of exclusion.A European court had no right intervening in such a profoundly Italian matter, he said, adding: \"It seems as if the court wanted to ignore the role of Christianity in forming Europe's identity, which was and remains essential.\"The ruling marked the end of an eight-year battle by a Finnish-born mother, Soile Lautsi. She took her cause to court after failing to get crucifixes removed from the school at which her two children were being taught at a town in north-east Italy.Lautsi appealed to Strasbourg three years ago when her case was thrown out by Italy's constitutional court.Although more than 7% of Italy's population is now of immigrant origin, multiculturalism has made few inroads and most Italians argue passionately, as did their government's advocate in Strasbourg, that the crucifix is a symbol of national identity.The court disagreed. \"The presence of the crucifix could easily be interpreted by pupils of all ages as a religious sign, and they would feel that they were being educated in a school environment bearing the stamp of a given religion,\" it ruled, ordering the Italian state to pay Lautsi \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,476) in damages.Classroom crucifixes were made compulsory by two laws in the 1920s when Italy was a fascist state.They have been applied less rigorously since 1984, when Catholicism ceased to be the state religion.One government minister, Roberto Calderoli, of the Northern League, said yesterday: \"The European court has trodden on our rights, our culture, our history, our traditions and our values.\"Claudio Scajola, a member of Berlusconi's Freedom People party, said: \"The crucifix is a universal symbol of love, meekness and peace. Preventing it from being displayed is an act of violence against the deep-seated feelings of the Italian people and all persons of goodwill.\"The mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, said he was flabbergasted. And the new, ex-communist leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, Pierluigi Bersani, protested: \"An ancient tradition like the crucifix cannot be offensive to anyone.\"On the Facebook website, 23,000 people signed up to two pages opposed to the court's decision within hours of the news breaking.The government's lawyer said he would seek leave to appeal to the Strasbourg court's 17-member Grand Chamber. If his petition is rejected, or if an appeal is subsequently thrown out, then Italy would be obliged to comply.", "tags": ["Italy", "European Union", "Human rights", "Catholicism", "Religion", "World news", "European court of human rights", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Human rights ruling against classroom crucifixes angers Italy"},{"date": "2009-10-23T15:47:24Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government was today facing an outcry from art lovers and historians following the discovery that one of the most important archives of Renaissance documents had been sold to unidentified Russian buyers, reportedly for \u20ac150m (\u00a3138m).The collected papers of the artist, architect and writer Giorgio Vasari include his correspondence with five popes, his friend Michelangelo and the ruler of Florence, Cosimo I de' Medici. They also include Vasari's notes for his own works.\"They want to sell a piece of our history,\" declared Carlo Arturo Quintavalle, professor of art history at the University of Parma. \"We must stage a revolt.\"Born in Arezzo, Tuscany, in 1511, Vasari is regarded as the father of art history. In his Lives of the Artists, he detailed the careers of his late Renaissance contemporaries and gathered together all that was known about many of their predecessors.He was a fine painter in his own right. But he is probably best known to tourists visiting Italy for having designed the \"Vasari corridor\", an elevated passageway built at Cosimo's behest, which runs for a kilometre through Florence and across the River Arno.Considerable mystery surrounds the sale of Vasari's papers, which are kept in the house the artist bought for himself in his home town and which he decorated with his own frescoes. The mayor of Arezzo said he had only learned of the transaction in a letter from a government official which said it had taken place on 23 September \u2013 days before the death of the owner of the archive, Giovanni Festari.The letter informed him that, under the terms of a 1994 government order, he could block the sale by matching the price supposedly offered by a Russian company. \"Madness,\" said the mayor. \"Where am I going to find \u20ac150m? That's equivalent to five times the annual budget of the Arezzo council.\"The discovery comes at an embarrassing moment, as preparations are being made to celebrate the 500th anniversary of Vasari's birth. Fanfani said he would call off the events if the sale went through.In a statement, the government expressed doubts about the \"vastness\" of the sum involved, clearly implying it might have been inflated to scotch a rival offer. But it stressed that a government order 15 years ago had specified that the archives must remain in Vasari's house, which is owned by the state.\"The restriction is in place today\", agreed Arezzo's mayor. \"But it could be lifted tomorrow. And it is scarcely credible that someone would pay \u20ac150m to leave the archives in Arezzo.\"He said he had already written letters to members of the regional parliament, the Russian ambassador, the heritage minister and the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who by coincidence was in Russia today visiting his friend and counterpart, Vladimir Putin. \"If the state doesn't block this deal, I shall be ashamed of being Italian\", Fanfani declared.", "tags": ["Italy", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Outcry in Italy over sale of Renaissance papers"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-11-05T17:10:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It's hard to dispute the claim of many Italians that in banning the crucifix from their schools the European court of human rights is assaulting Italian identity. This is a multifarious, rapidly transforming world, and Italy needs to embrace multiculturalism as much as any other nation. However, nobody who has ever looked at any Italian art can seriously question the depth, richness, and popularity of this culture's relationship with the cross. One of my favourite paintings in London's National Gallery is the Mond Crucifixion, painted by the young Raphael. I love its silver moon and gold sun with their magical faces in the blue sky. But at the centre of the tall painting is the figure of Christ on a wooden cross in the Italian countryside. Again and again, in some of the most beautiful images in the world, Italian artists and their audience have imagined the cross being brought home like this.  I hope human rights inspectors don't visit the monk's cells at San Marco in Florence, where in the 15th-century Fra Angelico and his assistants painted one fresco after another of Christ on the cross, stark and isolated, to provoke contemplation of the Passion. In the same monastery, you can see relics of Savonarola, the fierce prophet who encouraged his followers to meditate on that mystery. One of Savonarola's enthusiasts was Michelangelo, whose youthful carving of a crucifix has become an object of some dispute. But Michelangelo was working in an already ancient tradition. The floods in Florence in 1966 severely damaged one of the oldest and greatest images of the cross in Italian art, by Cimabue in Santa Croce. The famous cross by the great 15th-century architect Brunelleschi in the same city's Santa Maria Novella has been more fortunate. Whatever you think of Catholicism, it has generated some beautiful art. In Italy, that art is so deeply woven into a living culture that to bland it out is to wage war on human rights. I think this is an ugly attack on a cultural fabric rightly admired all over the world.", "tags": ["Art and design", "Culture", "Italy", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Let Italy and its art keep the cross | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2009-11-03T19:11:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There was uproar in Italy today over a ruling by the European court of human rights that the crucifixes that hang in most Italian classrooms are a violation of religious and educational freedoms.The seven judges, whose decision could prompt a Europe-wide review of the use of religious symbols on public premises, said state schools had to \"observe confessional neutrality\".Except on the far left, the ruling met with condemnation among Italian politicians and was denounced by the Vatican. Silvio Berlusconi's education minister, Maria Stella Gelmini, said: \"No one, not even some ideologically motivated European court, will succeed in rubbing out our identity.\"A Vatican spokesman, Federico Lombardi, said the crucifix was a fundamental sign of the importance of religious values in Italian history and culture, and was a symbol of unity and welcoming for all of humanity, not one of exclusion.A European court had no right intervening in such a profoundly Italian matter, he said, adding: \"It seems as if the court wanted to ignore the role of Christianity in forming Europe's identity, which was and remains essential.\"The ruling marked the end of an eight-year battle by a Finnish-born mother, Soile Lautsi. She took her cause to court after failing to get crucifixes removed from the school at which her two children were being taught at a town in north-east Italy.Lautsi appealed to Strasbourg three years ago when her case was thrown out by Italy's constitutional court.Although more than 7% of Italy's population is now of immigrant origin, multiculturalism has made few inroads and most Italians argue passionately, as did their government's advocate in Strasbourg, that the crucifix is a symbol of national identity.The court disagreed. \"The presence of the crucifix could easily be interpreted by pupils of all ages as a religious sign, and they would feel that they were being educated in a school environment bearing the stamp of a given religion,\" it ruled, ordering the Italian state to pay Lautsi \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,476) in damages.Classroom crucifixes were made compulsory by two laws in the 1920s when Italy was a fascist state.They have been applied less rigorously since 1984, when Catholicism ceased to be the state religion.One government minister, Roberto Calderoli, of the Northern League, said yesterday: \"The European court has trodden on our rights, our culture, our history, our traditions and our values.\"Claudio Scajola, a member of Berlusconi's Freedom People party, said: \"The crucifix is a universal symbol of love, meekness and peace. Preventing it from being displayed is an act of violence against the deep-seated feelings of the Italian people and all persons of goodwill.\"The mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, said he was flabbergasted. And the new, ex-communist leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, Pierluigi Bersani, protested: \"An ancient tradition like the crucifix cannot be offensive to anyone.\"On the Facebook website, 23,000 people signed up to two pages opposed to the court's decision within hours of the news breaking.The government's lawyer said he would seek leave to appeal to the Strasbourg court's 17-member Grand Chamber. If his petition is rejected, or if an appeal is subsequently thrown out, then Italy would be obliged to comply.", "tags": ["Italy", "European Union", "Human rights", "Catholicism", "Religion", "World news", "European court of human rights", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Human rights ruling against classroom crucifixes angers Italy"},{"date": "2009-10-23T15:47:24Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government was today facing an outcry from art lovers and historians following the discovery that one of the most important archives of Renaissance documents had been sold to unidentified Russian buyers, reportedly for \u20ac150m (\u00a3138m).The collected papers of the artist, architect and writer Giorgio Vasari include his correspondence with five popes, his friend Michelangelo and the ruler of Florence, Cosimo I de' Medici. They also include Vasari's notes for his own works.\"They want to sell a piece of our history,\" declared Carlo Arturo Quintavalle, professor of art history at the University of Parma. \"We must stage a revolt.\"Born in Arezzo, Tuscany, in 1511, Vasari is regarded as the father of art history. In his Lives of the Artists, he detailed the careers of his late Renaissance contemporaries and gathered together all that was known about many of their predecessors.He was a fine painter in his own right. But he is probably best known to tourists visiting Italy for having designed the \"Vasari corridor\", an elevated passageway built at Cosimo's behest, which runs for a kilometre through Florence and across the River Arno.Considerable mystery surrounds the sale of Vasari's papers, which are kept in the house the artist bought for himself in his home town and which he decorated with his own frescoes. The mayor of Arezzo said he had only learned of the transaction in a letter from a government official which said it had taken place on 23 September \u2013 days before the death of the owner of the archive, Giovanni Festari.The letter informed him that, under the terms of a 1994 government order, he could block the sale by matching the price supposedly offered by a Russian company. \"Madness,\" said the mayor. \"Where am I going to find \u20ac150m? That's equivalent to five times the annual budget of the Arezzo council.\"The discovery comes at an embarrassing moment, as preparations are being made to celebrate the 500th anniversary of Vasari's birth. Fanfani said he would call off the events if the sale went through.In a statement, the government expressed doubts about the \"vastness\" of the sum involved, clearly implying it might have been inflated to scotch a rival offer. But it stressed that a government order 15 years ago had specified that the archives must remain in Vasari's house, which is owned by the state.\"The restriction is in place today\", agreed Arezzo's mayor. \"But it could be lifted tomorrow. And it is scarcely credible that someone would pay \u20ac150m to leave the archives in Arezzo.\"He said he had already written letters to members of the regional parliament, the Russian ambassador, the heritage minister and the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who by coincidence was in Russia today visiting his friend and counterpart, Vladimir Putin. \"If the state doesn't block this deal, I shall be ashamed of being Italian\", Fanfani declared.", "tags": ["Italy", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Outcry in Italy over sale of Renaissance papers"},{"date": "2009-10-27T13:05:26Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Even with the presence of the late Heath Ledger in his final performance, Terry Gilliam's The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus always looked like it might struggle to recoup its $45m budget. Gilliam's films, after all, have something of a habit of haemorrhaging cash, and the movie struggled to find a distribution deal in the US. But the former Python can rest assured that his film is, at the very least, wildly popular in Italy.Variety reports that Parnassus took a whopping $2.7m in its first weekend there, enough to put it at No 2 on the box-office chart. Distributors had clearly underestimated the appeal of a bit of fantastical Gilliam whimsy, for the film only screened in 227 cinemas. It will expand to more than 300 from this weekend to cope with demand, but the meagre number of screens available for viewers wanting to see the film meant that it scored the country's third-highest per-screen average of the year, an impressive $11,870 for each cinema.Gilliam's film, the tale of a travelling theatre company which offers audience members the chance to enter a fantastical world beyond its dusty curtain, is also faring decently in the UK, where it entered the chart at No 3 with a bow of \u00a3905,000 two weekends ago. The prospects therefore look a little better for the film's US debut on Christmas Day, though so far it is only being tested on limited release there.Roberto Proia, head of Italian distributor Moviemax, said Ledger's huge fanbase had undoubtedly helped Parnassus to achieve success in Italy. \"We also found out that teenagers massively love Gilliam, and we did not expect this,\" he said. \"He really has rock-star status.\"Gilliam's most successful box-office take is his $57m haul for 1995's science fiction thriller 12 Monkeys. His last film, 2006's fantasy drama Tideland, however, took just $566,000 across the world.", "tags": ["Film", "Terry Gilliam", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus"], "title": "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus opens big in Italy for 'rock-star' Gilliam"},{"date": "2009-12-24T15:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I had been wondering how to begin this piece explaining why I have changed my mind about Italy, why over the last decade I have become increasingly indignant about a country and culture that used to delight me so much, and why I now almost do not care if I ever set foot in the place again. But I need not have worried, a Guardian story gave me my cue.John Hooper's report from Coccaglio near Brescia brought together much of what is wrong with modern Italy in one seasonal package, all perfectly presented in extravagant wrapping paper and tied up with a great bow in the way that only Italians can manage. Christmas in Coccaglio, Hooper reports, is being marked by a house-to-house search for illegal (ie black) immigrants. The search, which is sponsored by the local Northern League-controlled council, has officially been dubbed Operation White Christmas and finishes, ho ho ho, on 25 December. One Coccaglio councillor has said Christmas is a feast of Christian identity, not a celebration of hospitality. The whole crackdown has been complimented and backed by Silvio Berlusconi's government.As a northern European, I grew up with a northern European's readiness to have a love affair with Italy. It had warmth instead of cold, brightness instead of dark, extroversion instead of introversion, passion instead of repression. To go to Italy, as I did most years for a large part of my life, was somehow to be released into a world of the senses, where the heart ruled the head, where beauty replaced ugliness and where easygoing moral naturalness replaced all the buttoned-up severity of the protestant world. As I got older I became more interested in the language, the art, the history and of course the opera and the women. I became fascinated by the politics too. The Italian left seemed to possess a uniquely learned and subtle way of looking at its country and the world. It offered a beguiling combination of socialism and style. In Bologna they seemed to have invented the perfect modern city, combining intellectual dynamism, excellent local government and some of the best cooking in Europe. Like others of my generation, I lapped it all up and wondered why we in Britain could not be more like Italians.That was a long time ago. I see things differently now. The easy thing to say would be to blame it all on Berlusconi, on his grotesquery, his corruption, his shamelessness and his racism \u2013 and of course to some extent I do. As George W Bush did to the global standing of the US, so Berlusconi has done to that of Italy. But with this big difference: at least the rise of Bush made possible the eventual corrective rise of Barack Obama. On the contrary, the rise of Berlusconi seems only to feed itself and to propel Italy ever faster down the track of media-dominated, media-controlled politics. I sometimes fear this may be our future in Britain too, if we do not watch out. My Christmas quiz to readers is this. Who would be the British Berlusconi?Back to Italy. When British observers looked at the US a decade ago and asked how could they elect someone like Bush, there was at least a fairly clear psephological answer to their question (and it was not simply the obvious retort in 2000 that they didn't elect him). Americans elected Bush twice because American voters, especially white male American voters, tend to be culturally and politically more rightwing than white male voters in most of Europe.We must ask a similar question about Italians. How could they elect someone like Berlusconi, and then do it again, and then do it a third time? They do so, I suspect, for much the same psephological reasons as Americans chose someone like Bush. Look back over 150 years of Italian history and you have long periods of rightwing rule, each followed by a short period of catastrophe and then by a reassertion of the right. Italy has never been the liberal Eden that progressive Europeans sometimes delude themselves into imagining it to be. It is actually a majority rightwing country. It is a much more corrupt, smut-driven, racist and lawless country than the middle-class tourists, armed with their EM Forster fantasies and seeing only what they want to see, imagine. Coccaglio is not merely a corrective to this. It is the way Italy is. Forget the Italy of Dante. Forget the Italy of Verdi. Forget the Italy of your fantasies. Welcome to the Italy that calls a raid on migrants Operation White Christmas, to the Italy that says the American president has a good sun tan \u2013 and to the Italy that then sniggers about it.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "I've changed my mind about Italy | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2009-12-14T20:44:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's personal doctor put off a decision on when Italy's prime minister should be released from hospital, saying the 73-year-old's injuries were worse than initially announced.Dr Alberto Zangrillo said the media tycoon had lost half a litre of blood after being hit in the face with a plaster souvenir during an attack on him at a rally in Milan on Sunday night. Zangrillo said although his patient would not need an operation, it would take the prime minister at least 25 days to recover fully from his injuries.\"The consequences are more serious than we could say [on Sunday] evening,\" he said after seeing Berlusconi. \"I found him shaken, annoyed \u2013 as if woken, really out-of-sorts, from a bad dream.\"Italy's billionaire leader suffered a fractured nose and two broken teeth after being hit by a replica of Milan's famously jagged cathedral, the Duomo, which took place as he mingled with the crowd in the city. He was cut under one eye and his top lip was split in two places.An earlier medical bulletin issued by the San Raffaele hospital in Milan to which Berlusconi was admitted said he was in \"persistent\" pain and was being given antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drugs. A doctor said he was eating only with difficulty.As Berlusconi began his recovery, there was speculation the attack would complicate Italy's already intensely polarised and febrile politics.A 42 year-old man, Massimo Tartaglia, was arrested and jailed, accused of premeditated assault after the incident. Police said he was found to be carrying a pepper spray.Tartaglia, an electronics technician whose inventions once earned him an interview in Il Giornale, the Berlusconi family's newspaper, was reported to have a 10-year history of mental instability. But his assault came against a background of passionate anti-Berlusconi protest. Tartaglia was tonight reported to have written to the prime minister in hospital to apologise. He said his actions had been \"cowardly\" and \"superficial\".Zangrillo said that while still bloodied, Berlusconi had told him: \"There is a climate of hatred. I expected this to happen.\"Claiming to be victimised by leftwing prosecutors and judges, Berlusconi has vowed to overhaul Italy's constitution to curb their independence, leading some Italians to believe he threatens the very foundations of their democracy. On5 December, an estimated 250,000 flocked to a \"No Berlusconi Day\" in Rome.In the hours after Sunday's attack, several tens of thousands of people signed up to Facebook pages that celebrated Tartaglia as a hero.In a front-page editorial beneath a huge picture of the injured prime minister, Il Giornale said the attack was a first triumph for \"an anti-[Berlusconi] hate front\".But Antonio Di Pietro, a former magistrate who once prosecuted the prime minister for alleged corruption and now leads a small, stridently anti-Berlusconi party, said Berlusconi had \"instigated\" the violence by his actions. Di Pietro's words were swiftly disowned by most centre-left politicians, and Pierluigi Bersani, the leader of the biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, visited Berlusconi in hospital.Professor James Walston, of the American University of Rome, said: \"The difficulty for the opposition now will be to separate personal sympathy for someone who has had his faced smashed in from institutional antipathy towards what it is Berlusconi stands for.\" He added: \"The attack has had an immediate sympathy-generating effect and it could help his people to bounce legislation through parliament to change the relationship between the judiciary and the executive.\"Among other questions still to be answered is whether the legendarily image-conscious Berlusconi, who has had a hair transplant and a facelift, would seek to disguise his injuries or flaunt the scars as evidence of the alleged savagery of his opponents.Some commentators speculated that Italy was at risk of slipping back into political violence. Walston said: \"Unless the social situation, and particularly the job situation, gets worse I don't think we'll be close. But we are getting closer.\"", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi attack stirs up Italy"},{"date": "2009-11-05T17:10:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It's hard to dispute the claim of many Italians that in banning the crucifix from their schools the European court of human rights is assaulting Italian identity. This is a multifarious, rapidly transforming world, and Italy needs to embrace multiculturalism as much as any other nation. However, nobody who has ever looked at any Italian art can seriously question the depth, richness, and popularity of this culture's relationship with the cross. One of my favourite paintings in London's National Gallery is the Mond Crucifixion, painted by the young Raphael. I love its silver moon and gold sun with their magical faces in the blue sky. But at the centre of the tall painting is the figure of Christ on a wooden cross in the Italian countryside. Again and again, in some of the most beautiful images in the world, Italian artists and their audience have imagined the cross being brought home like this.  I hope human rights inspectors don't visit the monk's cells at San Marco in Florence, where in the 15th-century Fra Angelico and his assistants painted one fresco after another of Christ on the cross, stark and isolated, to provoke contemplation of the Passion. In the same monastery, you can see relics of Savonarola, the fierce prophet who encouraged his followers to meditate on that mystery. One of Savonarola's enthusiasts was Michelangelo, whose youthful carving of a crucifix has become an object of some dispute. But Michelangelo was working in an already ancient tradition. The floods in Florence in 1966 severely damaged one of the oldest and greatest images of the cross in Italian art, by Cimabue in Santa Croce. The famous cross by the great 15th-century architect Brunelleschi in the same city's Santa Maria Novella has been more fortunate. Whatever you think of Catholicism, it has generated some beautiful art. In Italy, that art is so deeply woven into a living culture that to bland it out is to wage war on human rights. I think this is an ugly attack on a cultural fabric rightly admired all over the world.", "tags": ["Art and design", "Culture", "Italy", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Let Italy and its art keep the cross | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2009-11-03T19:11:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There was uproar in Italy today over a ruling by the European court of human rights that the crucifixes that hang in most Italian classrooms are a violation of religious and educational freedoms.The seven judges, whose decision could prompt a Europe-wide review of the use of religious symbols on public premises, said state schools had to \"observe confessional neutrality\".Except on the far left, the ruling met with condemnation among Italian politicians and was denounced by the Vatican. Silvio Berlusconi's education minister, Maria Stella Gelmini, said: \"No one, not even some ideologically motivated European court, will succeed in rubbing out our identity.\"A Vatican spokesman, Federico Lombardi, said the crucifix was a fundamental sign of the importance of religious values in Italian history and culture, and was a symbol of unity and welcoming for all of humanity, not one of exclusion.A European court had no right intervening in such a profoundly Italian matter, he said, adding: \"It seems as if the court wanted to ignore the role of Christianity in forming Europe's identity, which was and remains essential.\"The ruling marked the end of an eight-year battle by a Finnish-born mother, Soile Lautsi. She took her cause to court after failing to get crucifixes removed from the school at which her two children were being taught at a town in north-east Italy.Lautsi appealed to Strasbourg three years ago when her case was thrown out by Italy's constitutional court.Although more than 7% of Italy's population is now of immigrant origin, multiculturalism has made few inroads and most Italians argue passionately, as did their government's advocate in Strasbourg, that the crucifix is a symbol of national identity.The court disagreed. \"The presence of the crucifix could easily be interpreted by pupils of all ages as a religious sign, and they would feel that they were being educated in a school environment bearing the stamp of a given religion,\" it ruled, ordering the Italian state to pay Lautsi \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,476) in damages.Classroom crucifixes were made compulsory by two laws in the 1920s when Italy was a fascist state.They have been applied less rigorously since 1984, when Catholicism ceased to be the state religion.One government minister, Roberto Calderoli, of the Northern League, said yesterday: \"The European court has trodden on our rights, our culture, our history, our traditions and our values.\"Claudio Scajola, a member of Berlusconi's Freedom People party, said: \"The crucifix is a universal symbol of love, meekness and peace. Preventing it from being displayed is an act of violence against the deep-seated feelings of the Italian people and all persons of goodwill.\"The mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, said he was flabbergasted. And the new, ex-communist leader of Italy's biggest opposition group, the Democratic party, Pierluigi Bersani, protested: \"An ancient tradition like the crucifix cannot be offensive to anyone.\"On the Facebook website, 23,000 people signed up to two pages opposed to the court's decision within hours of the news breaking.The government's lawyer said he would seek leave to appeal to the Strasbourg court's 17-member Grand Chamber. If his petition is rejected, or if an appeal is subsequently thrown out, then Italy would be obliged to comply.", "tags": ["Italy", "European Union", "Human rights", "Catholicism", "Religion", "World news", "European court of human rights", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Human rights ruling against classroom crucifixes angers Italy"},{"date": "2009-10-23T15:47:24Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government was today facing an outcry from art lovers and historians following the discovery that one of the most important archives of Renaissance documents had been sold to unidentified Russian buyers, reportedly for \u20ac150m (\u00a3138m).The collected papers of the artist, architect and writer Giorgio Vasari include his correspondence with five popes, his friend Michelangelo and the ruler of Florence, Cosimo I de' Medici. They also include Vasari's notes for his own works.\"They want to sell a piece of our history,\" declared Carlo Arturo Quintavalle, professor of art history at the University of Parma. \"We must stage a revolt.\"Born in Arezzo, Tuscany, in 1511, Vasari is regarded as the father of art history. In his Lives of the Artists, he detailed the careers of his late Renaissance contemporaries and gathered together all that was known about many of their predecessors.He was a fine painter in his own right. But he is probably best known to tourists visiting Italy for having designed the \"Vasari corridor\", an elevated passageway built at Cosimo's behest, which runs for a kilometre through Florence and across the River Arno.Considerable mystery surrounds the sale of Vasari's papers, which are kept in the house the artist bought for himself in his home town and which he decorated with his own frescoes. The mayor of Arezzo said he had only learned of the transaction in a letter from a government official which said it had taken place on 23 September \u2013 days before the death of the owner of the archive, Giovanni Festari.The letter informed him that, under the terms of a 1994 government order, he could block the sale by matching the price supposedly offered by a Russian company. \"Madness,\" said the mayor. \"Where am I going to find \u20ac150m? That's equivalent to five times the annual budget of the Arezzo council.\"The discovery comes at an embarrassing moment, as preparations are being made to celebrate the 500th anniversary of Vasari's birth. Fanfani said he would call off the events if the sale went through.In a statement, the government expressed doubts about the \"vastness\" of the sum involved, clearly implying it might have been inflated to scotch a rival offer. But it stressed that a government order 15 years ago had specified that the archives must remain in Vasari's house, which is owned by the state.\"The restriction is in place today\", agreed Arezzo's mayor. \"But it could be lifted tomorrow. And it is scarcely credible that someone would pay \u20ac150m to leave the archives in Arezzo.\"He said he had already written letters to members of the regional parliament, the Russian ambassador, the heritage minister and the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, who by coincidence was in Russia today visiting his friend and counterpart, Vladimir Putin. \"If the state doesn't block this deal, I shall be ashamed of being Italian\", Fanfani declared.", "tags": ["Italy", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Outcry in Italy over sale of Renaissance papers"},{"date": "2009-10-27T13:05:26Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Even with the presence of the late Heath Ledger in his final performance, Terry Gilliam's The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus always looked like it might struggle to recoup its $45m budget. Gilliam's films, after all, have something of a habit of haemorrhaging cash, and the movie struggled to find a distribution deal in the US. But the former Python can rest assured that his film is, at the very least, wildly popular in Italy.Variety reports that Parnassus took a whopping $2.7m in its first weekend there, enough to put it at No 2 on the box-office chart. Distributors had clearly underestimated the appeal of a bit of fantastical Gilliam whimsy, for the film only screened in 227 cinemas. It will expand to more than 300 from this weekend to cope with demand, but the meagre number of screens available for viewers wanting to see the film meant that it scored the country's third-highest per-screen average of the year, an impressive $11,870 for each cinema.Gilliam's film, the tale of a travelling theatre company which offers audience members the chance to enter a fantastical world beyond its dusty curtain, is also faring decently in the UK, where it entered the chart at No 3 with a bow of \u00a3905,000 two weekends ago. The prospects therefore look a little better for the film's US debut on Christmas Day, though so far it is only being tested on limited release there.Roberto Proia, head of Italian distributor Moviemax, said Ledger's huge fanbase had undoubtedly helped Parnassus to achieve success in Italy. \"We also found out that teenagers massively love Gilliam, and we did not expect this,\" he said. \"He really has rock-star status.\"Gilliam's most successful box-office take is his $57m haul for 1995's science fiction thriller 12 Monkeys. His last film, 2006's fantasy drama Tideland, however, took just $566,000 across the world.", "tags": ["Film", "Terry Gilliam", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus"], "title": "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus opens big in Italy for 'rock-star' Gilliam"},{"date": "2009-12-22T17:31:55Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than 100 people have been killed in the cold snap across Europe, with temperatures plummeting and snowfall causing chaos from Moscow to Milan.In Poland, where temperatures have dropped to as low as -20C in some areas, police appealed for tip-offs about people spotted lying around outside. At least 42 people, most of them homeless, died over the weekend.In Ukraine 27 people have frozen to death since the thermometer dropped last week. Authorities in Romania said 11 people had succumbed to the chill, and in the Czech Republic the toll was 12. In Germany, where temperatures have fallen to -33C in certain parts, at least seven people are known to have lost their lives in the freezing weather.For millions of others across the continent, the cold snap has brought severe disruption, with flight cancellations and traffic jams thwarting pre-Christmas travel plans.The resumption of Eurostar services brought some relief to passengers travelling between France, Belgium and England, but many trains across Europe were delayed or cancelled.Airports were struggling to cope with icy runways, with Ryanair and Easyjet among several airlines to cancel some flights.In Frankfurt, where snowfall prompted delays and cancellations, 3,000 people were forced to spend last night inside the terminals at the city's main airport. \"It is totally chaotic today \u2026 no one knows what's going on \u2013 neither us nor the staff,\" Dorothee Schaefle, waiting in line, told Die Welt newspaper.Roads were not exempt from the chaos. After a weekend that brought the heaviest snowfall in about 100 years, Moscow was gridlocked, with tailbacks snailing around the Russian capital.In Italy, where winters are usually mild, motorways in the north-east were closed and the Ministry of Defence dispatched helicopters in Sicily to bring medical aid to those in need.In Milan hundreds of soldiers worked through the night to clear the snow- and ice-covered streets.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Poland", "Germany", "Russia", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "European weather deaths pass 100"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has \u2013 according to its evangelists \u2013 slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for \"violating privacy\" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. \"Why,\" fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, \"did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?\"And, he went on: \"Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?\"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video \u2013 the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down \"within hours\" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that \"none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed\". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary \u2013 ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public \u2014 would be huge. The Guardian's Charles Arthur has calculated that to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to \"take down first and ask questions later\".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.", "tags": ["Google", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "The Google Three, Italy and Silvio Berlusconi"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has \u2013 according to its evangelists \u2013 slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for \"violating privacy\" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. \"Why,\" fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, \"did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?\"And, he went on: \"Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?\"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video \u2013 the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down \"within hours\" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that \"none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed\". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary \u2013 ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public \u2014 would be huge. The Guardian's Charles Arthur has calculated that to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to \"take down first and ask questions later\".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.", "tags": ["Google", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "The Google Three, Italy and Silvio Berlusconi"},{"date": "2010-01-10T16:18:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"The main danger is when they walk along the streets, simply because they are the only ones without a car in Rosarno. Africans cannot report to the police because most of them have no documents and no relatives prepared to vindicate them. Therefore, they are the ideal targets\".The Calabrian writer Antonello Mangano gave a good description of migrant farm workers' conditions in a book provocatively titled \"Africans will save Rosarno. And maybe also Italy\". He wrote it after the uprising of migrants in December 2008 in protest at the umpteenth robbery and shooting by 'Ndrangheta gangs.Two Ivorians were seriously wounded and their friends from Ghana, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Mali, Togo, Eritrea and Sudan joined forces against Italian criminals, collectively reporting the attack to the authorities. \"The African community represented a true anti-mafia movement from the bottom, with courage they lifted their heads, showing a high sense of the state, much higher than our fellow citizens,\" wrote Mangano.And what has since happened to these brave Africans? Further exploitation, further attacks from gangs and citizens, until they had to be evacuated from Rosarno yesterday. These facts are a clear warning that more and more migrants in Italy are reaching the end of their tether, due to the hostility caused by a political and media criminalisation campaign against the clandestini. \"We must be resolute against clandestine immigration,\" the interior minister, Roberto Maroni \u2013 a Northern League politician \u2013 keeps on repeating like a mantra.Over 300 cases of violence of this kind have been reported in the last two years, mainly against the Roma people, Romanians and Africans. Human rights organisations and trade unions expressed serious concerns until the Italian government was called upon by some European and UN bodies, such as the Council of Europe and the International Labour Organisation, to answer accusations of xenophobia and discrimination against foreign workers, either legal or illegal.The Vatican had also condemned the rampant climate of racism nourished by irresponsible politicians. The opposition Democratic party has managed only some belated, timid criticism of these events; even the neo-fascist Gianfranco Fini, the speaker of the lower house of parliament, sounded more progressive when he proposed that migrants be allowed to vote in local elections; migrants' children born in Italy get citizenship; and the waiting period for adult citizenship be shortened. But while Fini tries to represent an alternative, democratic right, Maroni is definitely a hardliner.Under the pretext of security last May he started the policy of \"push-backs\", intercepting in international waters boats full of Africans hoping to reach Sicily and sending them back to Libya \u2013 even though the UN high commissioner for refugees opposed a practice that openly violates the 1951 Geneva convention on the status of refugees. Actually a large majority of those who try to enter Europe through Italy or Malta flee from conflicts and persecutions in central and eastern Africa, and push-backs leave no chance for protection claims. Indifferent to its international obligations and to these human sufferings, the Italian government indiscriminately drives people back to a country with poor respect for any civil rights. Once they get to Tripoli, migrants are harassed and locked up in detention centres for months, years sometimes.Even worse, Italy is exchanging migrants for business opportunities. In 2008 the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, signed an agreement on colonial compensation with Muammar Gaddafi. The deal foresees a \u20ac5bn investment in infrastructure and housing over 25 years, and an increase in Libyan oil for the Italian market. With the help of Gaddafi the government might push the problem of migrants even further away: a new \u20ac10m project financed by the European commission will set up patrols along Libya's southern border in the desert, involving Italy, other EU states and the European agency Frontex.But the Italian government's hypocrisy goes further. Eritrea's president, Isaias Afewerki, is considered by the UN as one of the most brutal dictators in the world, and his regime was accused by Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, of aiding Islamic radicals linked to al-Qaida in Somalia. But for the Italian prime minister he is just a good business partner. In what is a former Italian colony, Italian investments range from Italcantieri, a company linked to Berlusconi's family, to tourist projects on the Red Sea and textile firms that benefit from cheap and union-free labour. According to the weekly news magazine l'Espresso, in September a delegation of Afewerki's advisers met the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini, and it seems they praised the push-back policy, as it helps to keep out their political dissidents. Wherever these Africans are now, it is doubtful if they can do much to save their own country, let alone ours.", "tags": ["Italy", "Human rights", "Immigration and asylum", "Mafia", "Libya", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: a country united by racism | Vittorio Longhi"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has \u2013 according to its evangelists \u2013 slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for \"violating privacy\" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. \"Why,\" fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, \"did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?\"And, he went on: \"Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?\"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video \u2013 the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down \"within hours\" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that \"none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed\". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary \u2013 ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public \u2014 would be huge. The Guardian's Charles Arthur has calculated that to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to \"take down first and ask questions later\".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.", "tags": ["Google", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "The Google Three, Italy and Silvio Berlusconi"},{"date": "2010-01-10T16:18:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"The main danger is when they walk along the streets, simply because they are the only ones without a car in Rosarno. Africans cannot report to the police because most of them have no documents and no relatives prepared to vindicate them. Therefore, they are the ideal targets\".The Calabrian writer Antonello Mangano gave a good description of migrant farm workers' conditions in a book provocatively titled \"Africans will save Rosarno. And maybe also Italy\". He wrote it after the uprising of migrants in December 2008 in protest at the umpteenth robbery and shooting by 'Ndrangheta gangs.Two Ivorians were seriously wounded and their friends from Ghana, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Mali, Togo, Eritrea and Sudan joined forces against Italian criminals, collectively reporting the attack to the authorities. \"The African community represented a true anti-mafia movement from the bottom, with courage they lifted their heads, showing a high sense of the state, much higher than our fellow citizens,\" wrote Mangano.And what has since happened to these brave Africans? Further exploitation, further attacks from gangs and citizens, until they had to be evacuated from Rosarno yesterday. These facts are a clear warning that more and more migrants in Italy are reaching the end of their tether, due to the hostility caused by a political and media criminalisation campaign against the clandestini. \"We must be resolute against clandestine immigration,\" the interior minister, Roberto Maroni \u2013 a Northern League politician \u2013 keeps on repeating like a mantra.Over 300 cases of violence of this kind have been reported in the last two years, mainly against the Roma people, Romanians and Africans. Human rights organisations and trade unions expressed serious concerns until the Italian government was called upon by some European and UN bodies, such as the Council of Europe and the International Labour Organisation, to answer accusations of xenophobia and discrimination against foreign workers, either legal or illegal.The Vatican had also condemned the rampant climate of racism nourished by irresponsible politicians. The opposition Democratic party has managed only some belated, timid criticism of these events; even the neo-fascist Gianfranco Fini, the speaker of the lower house of parliament, sounded more progressive when he proposed that migrants be allowed to vote in local elections; migrants' children born in Italy get citizenship; and the waiting period for adult citizenship be shortened. But while Fini tries to represent an alternative, democratic right, Maroni is definitely a hardliner.Under the pretext of security last May he started the policy of \"push-backs\", intercepting in international waters boats full of Africans hoping to reach Sicily and sending them back to Libya \u2013 even though the UN high commissioner for refugees opposed a practice that openly violates the 1951 Geneva convention on the status of refugees. Actually a large majority of those who try to enter Europe through Italy or Malta flee from conflicts and persecutions in central and eastern Africa, and push-backs leave no chance for protection claims. Indifferent to its international obligations and to these human sufferings, the Italian government indiscriminately drives people back to a country with poor respect for any civil rights. Once they get to Tripoli, migrants are harassed and locked up in detention centres for months, years sometimes.Even worse, Italy is exchanging migrants for business opportunities. In 2008 the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, signed an agreement on colonial compensation with Muammar Gaddafi. The deal foresees a \u20ac5bn investment in infrastructure and housing over 25 years, and an increase in Libyan oil for the Italian market. With the help of Gaddafi the government might push the problem of migrants even further away: a new \u20ac10m project financed by the European commission will set up patrols along Libya's southern border in the desert, involving Italy, other EU states and the European agency Frontex.But the Italian government's hypocrisy goes further. Eritrea's president, Isaias Afewerki, is considered by the UN as one of the most brutal dictators in the world, and his regime was accused by Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, of aiding Islamic radicals linked to al-Qaida in Somalia. But for the Italian prime minister he is just a good business partner. In what is a former Italian colony, Italian investments range from Italcantieri, a company linked to Berlusconi's family, to tourist projects on the Red Sea and textile firms that benefit from cheap and union-free labour. According to the weekly news magazine l'Espresso, in September a delegation of Afewerki's advisers met the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini, and it seems they praised the push-back policy, as it helps to keep out their political dissidents. Wherever these Africans are now, it is doubtful if they can do much to save their own country, let alone ours.", "tags": ["Italy", "Human rights", "Immigration and asylum", "Mafia", "Libya", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: a country united by racism | Vittorio Longhi"},{"date": "2010-03-10T18:48:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Google and the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage have reached an agreement to digitise up to a million out-of-copyright works at the national libraries in Florence and Rome, including some by Galileo.And it's just two weeks after an Italian court gave three Google executives suspended prison sentences over a video of bullying on YouTube that had been removed once the company was told about it. Google is not only to work closely together with the Italian libraries, but also with the Italian ministry of culture \u2013 the first time that the search engine has had a government department a such a close partner on such a project. Google called it a \"groundbreaking deal\". \"The libraries will select the works to be digitised from their collections, which include a wealth of rare historical books, including scientific works, literature from the period of the founding of Italy and the works of Italy's most famous poets and writers,\" says Google's strategic partner development manager, Gino Mattiuzzo, in a blogpost announcing the deal.While the costs will be covered fully by Google, the company will pass the scans on. The books will be available to groups including the EU's Europeana project, which already has scanned 6 million digital items of cultural value. \"We believe today's announcement is an important step, and we look forward to working with more libraries and other partners,\" says Mattiuzzo. Google has similar arrangements with Oxford University, Madrid's Complutense University, the Bavarian state museum and others. However, it's not clear whether Google is creating the world's biggest library or the world's biggest bookshop. Some fear the search engine is exploiting cultural heritage as a cheap context for advertising. Recently, a New York judge postponed a decision on whether the company should be allowed to display parts of books still in-copyright. Google on the other hand claims good intentions: \"We envision a future in which people will be able to search and access the world's books anywhere, anytime. After all, Antonio Beccadelli and Anastasius Germonius \u2013 like Shakespeare and Cervantes \u2013 are part of our human cultural history.\" ", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Media", "Ebooks", "Books"], "title": "Google partners with Italy for groundbreaking book scanning deal"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has \u2013 according to its evangelists \u2013 slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for \"violating privacy\" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. \"Why,\" fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, \"did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?\"And, he went on: \"Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?\"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video \u2013 the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down \"within hours\" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that \"none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed\". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary \u2013 ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public \u2014 would be huge. The Guardian's Charles Arthur has calculated that to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to \"take down first and ask questions later\".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.", "tags": ["Google", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "The Google Three, Italy and Silvio Berlusconi"},{"date": "2010-01-10T16:18:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"The main danger is when they walk along the streets, simply because they are the only ones without a car in Rosarno. Africans cannot report to the police because most of them have no documents and no relatives prepared to vindicate them. Therefore, they are the ideal targets\".The Calabrian writer Antonello Mangano gave a good description of migrant farm workers' conditions in a book provocatively titled \"Africans will save Rosarno. And maybe also Italy\". He wrote it after the uprising of migrants in December 2008 in protest at the umpteenth robbery and shooting by 'Ndrangheta gangs.Two Ivorians were seriously wounded and their friends from Ghana, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Mali, Togo, Eritrea and Sudan joined forces against Italian criminals, collectively reporting the attack to the authorities. \"The African community represented a true anti-mafia movement from the bottom, with courage they lifted their heads, showing a high sense of the state, much higher than our fellow citizens,\" wrote Mangano.And what has since happened to these brave Africans? Further exploitation, further attacks from gangs and citizens, until they had to be evacuated from Rosarno yesterday. These facts are a clear warning that more and more migrants in Italy are reaching the end of their tether, due to the hostility caused by a political and media criminalisation campaign against the clandestini. \"We must be resolute against clandestine immigration,\" the interior minister, Roberto Maroni \u2013 a Northern League politician \u2013 keeps on repeating like a mantra.Over 300 cases of violence of this kind have been reported in the last two years, mainly against the Roma people, Romanians and Africans. Human rights organisations and trade unions expressed serious concerns until the Italian government was called upon by some European and UN bodies, such as the Council of Europe and the International Labour Organisation, to answer accusations of xenophobia and discrimination against foreign workers, either legal or illegal.The Vatican had also condemned the rampant climate of racism nourished by irresponsible politicians. The opposition Democratic party has managed only some belated, timid criticism of these events; even the neo-fascist Gianfranco Fini, the speaker of the lower house of parliament, sounded more progressive when he proposed that migrants be allowed to vote in local elections; migrants' children born in Italy get citizenship; and the waiting period for adult citizenship be shortened. But while Fini tries to represent an alternative, democratic right, Maroni is definitely a hardliner.Under the pretext of security last May he started the policy of \"push-backs\", intercepting in international waters boats full of Africans hoping to reach Sicily and sending them back to Libya \u2013 even though the UN high commissioner for refugees opposed a practice that openly violates the 1951 Geneva convention on the status of refugees. Actually a large majority of those who try to enter Europe through Italy or Malta flee from conflicts and persecutions in central and eastern Africa, and push-backs leave no chance for protection claims. Indifferent to its international obligations and to these human sufferings, the Italian government indiscriminately drives people back to a country with poor respect for any civil rights. Once they get to Tripoli, migrants are harassed and locked up in detention centres for months, years sometimes.Even worse, Italy is exchanging migrants for business opportunities. In 2008 the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, signed an agreement on colonial compensation with Muammar Gaddafi. The deal foresees a \u20ac5bn investment in infrastructure and housing over 25 years, and an increase in Libyan oil for the Italian market. With the help of Gaddafi the government might push the problem of migrants even further away: a new \u20ac10m project financed by the European commission will set up patrols along Libya's southern border in the desert, involving Italy, other EU states and the European agency Frontex.But the Italian government's hypocrisy goes further. Eritrea's president, Isaias Afewerki, is considered by the UN as one of the most brutal dictators in the world, and his regime was accused by Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, of aiding Islamic radicals linked to al-Qaida in Somalia. But for the Italian prime minister he is just a good business partner. In what is a former Italian colony, Italian investments range from Italcantieri, a company linked to Berlusconi's family, to tourist projects on the Red Sea and textile firms that benefit from cheap and union-free labour. According to the weekly news magazine l'Espresso, in September a delegation of Afewerki's advisers met the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini, and it seems they praised the push-back policy, as it helps to keep out their political dissidents. Wherever these Africans are now, it is doubtful if they can do much to save their own country, let alone ours.", "tags": ["Italy", "Human rights", "Immigration and asylum", "Mafia", "Libya", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: a country united by racism | Vittorio Longhi"},{"date": "2010-03-10T18:48:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Google and the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage have reached an agreement to digitise up to a million out-of-copyright works at the national libraries in Florence and Rome, including some by Galileo.And it's just two weeks after an Italian court gave three Google executives suspended prison sentences over a video of bullying on YouTube that had been removed once the company was told about it. Google is not only to work closely together with the Italian libraries, but also with the Italian ministry of culture \u2013 the first time that the search engine has had a government department a such a close partner on such a project. Google called it a \"groundbreaking deal\". \"The libraries will select the works to be digitised from their collections, which include a wealth of rare historical books, including scientific works, literature from the period of the founding of Italy and the works of Italy's most famous poets and writers,\" says Google's strategic partner development manager, Gino Mattiuzzo, in a blogpost announcing the deal.While the costs will be covered fully by Google, the company will pass the scans on. The books will be available to groups including the EU's Europeana project, which already has scanned 6 million digital items of cultural value. \"We believe today's announcement is an important step, and we look forward to working with more libraries and other partners,\" says Mattiuzzo. Google has similar arrangements with Oxford University, Madrid's Complutense University, the Bavarian state museum and others. However, it's not clear whether Google is creating the world's biggest library or the world's biggest bookshop. Some fear the search engine is exploiting cultural heritage as a cheap context for advertising. Recently, a New York judge postponed a decision on whether the company should be allowed to display parts of books still in-copyright. Google on the other hand claims good intentions: \"We envision a future in which people will be able to search and access the world's books anywhere, anytime. After all, Antonio Beccadelli and Anastasius Germonius \u2013 like Shakespeare and Cervantes \u2013 are part of our human cultural history.\" ", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Media", "Ebooks", "Books"], "title": "Google partners with Italy for groundbreaking book scanning deal"},{"date": "2010-03-09T00:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For Walter Litvinenko, it was a difficult but necessary step. After his son Alexander was murdered in London in 2006 in the most scandalous political killing since the cold war, Walter fled Russia for sanctuary in western Europe. He chose Italy. It offered a new, anonymous, KGB-free life.But two years after arriving in the sleepy seaside town of Senigallia on the Adriatic coast, Litvinenko says his family is being persecuted once again, their restaurant raided and closed down, their request for asylum repeatedly refused despite evidence that they would be at risk in Russia. Now, he says, they have run out of money and rely on charity handouts for food. For Litvinenko, there is only one plausible explanation: Silvio Berlusconi's unwillingness to upset the Kremlin or his friend, Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin.\"We have fallen victim to a political game,\" Litvinenko said today, speaking from the cramped flat he shares with eight relatives. \"Berlusconi is no better than Putin. All European governments have been flirting with Putin. Berlusconi's dependence on him, and on Russian gas, means that we don't get asylum.\"Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent turned dissident, was poisoned with a radioactive isotope, sparking theories that the Kremlin ordered the killing. A British police investigation resulted in a failed attempt to extradite another former KGB agent, Andrei Lugovoi.Walter Litvinenko, 71, arrived in Italy in April 2008 with his wife, Lyuba. Their daughter Tatiana \u2013 Alexander Litvinenko's half-sister \u2013 and her husband and their two children followed eight months later, joining Walter's son Maxim Litvinenko, his wife and young daughter. At this point the Litvinenkos applied for asylum.At the same time they opened a restaurant in the tourist resort of Rimini. Maxim Litvinenko, who moved to Italy nine years ago, is a professional chef. But soon after opening their business, and securing local permissions, the police informed them they were operating illegally, with one room lacking planning permission.On 31 October 2009 police burst into the restaurant at 12.45am, complaining of \"loud music\". Tatiana says the last guests had left at midnight and the family were quietly clearing up. The police demanded to see the Litvinenkos' papers. When Tatiana told them her documents were in her flat, a short walk away, one policeman grabbed her roughly by the arm, she says. \"I struggled free. He then chased after me and pushed me from behind. I smashed my head on the marble floor. I lost consciousness.\" She says she suffered concussion. \"I felt groggy for days. I had to see the doctor.\"The restaurant, La Terrazza, was finally shut down in November. The Litvinenkos were forced to move to a cheaper flat down the coast in nearby Senigallia.The family say they do not know if the harassment has been authorised at the highest levels. \"I thought Europe had 100% rule of law. We discovered in Italy this isn't true. It's connections and the mafia. It's as if we never arrived in Europe but ended up in some Russian province,\" Tatiana says.Italian immigration officials have interrogated the family twice. According to Tatiana, they expressed little interest in why the Litvinenkos fled their home in the southern Russian town of Nalchik. Instead, they wanted to know how they had come to Italy and whether their visas had been forged.Britain's own offers of asylum to high-profile Russian exiles including Litvinenko and his patron, Boris Berezovsky, have long infuriated Russia. Berlusconi has chosen to avoid the same mistake, Walter Litvinenko says.Paolo Guzzanti, a former senator in Berlusconi's Forza Italia party who fell out with the prime minister over his friendship with Putin, said it was likely that Berlusconi had blocked the asylum applications. \"I have no confirmation of this, but it seems obvious, given the brotherly relationship between Putin and Berlusconi, that all possible obstacles to granting asylum will be raised in order to slow down the procedure or make it impossible,\" he said.A spokesman for Berlusconi insisted the prime minister's relationship with Putin had nothing to do with decisions about the Litvinenko family. He said: \"With requests for asylum, including from countries like Russia, there are European procedures that Italy follows. It has nothing to do with personal relationships between leaders and nothing to do with politics.\"Two weeks ago Walter Litvinenko published an open letter on a human rights website named after Anna Politkovskaya (www.annaviva.com), the journalist and Kremlin critic murdered in Moscow in 2006. He said Berlusconi had made the Litvinenkos' situation unbearable. Despite assurances that their case would be swiftly resolved nothing had happened, he said. \"It's clear Berlusconi is dragging this process out for as long as possible,\" he added.On Sunday the Litvinenkos spent their last euros. They bought 10 eggs. The family \u2013 including two adults over 70 and two small children \u2013 are currently sharing a tiny three-bedroom flat. There is no hot water and only two hours a day of heating. A local church gives them bread and apples; otherwise they eat pancakes.The Litvinenkos have to pay \u20ac540 for next month's rent. Currently, they say, they have no idea how to find it.Walter Litvinenko blames Putin for the family's misfortune. \"He killed my son. He's a sick man,\" he says. Tatiana, however, refuses to criticise Putin and focuses on Berezovsky. \"My brother defended him. But he's clearly not interested in us.\" She admits, however, that she has not asked Berezovsky for anything.Walter hardly ever leaves the flat. With its quiet seaside cafes and off-season feel, Senigallia seems a perfect place to escape from the Russian state and its agents.Yet Walter admits he is worried the same fate that befell his son might await him too. \"There is a certain subconscious fear. In Nalchik I wasn't afraid because I knew everybody's faces. Here it's different. At any moment a person could come up to you, and that would be the end.\"Additional reporting: Giancarlo Castello and Tom Kington in RomeSilvio Berlusconi is Vladimir Putin's most ardent friend in Europe, and sees himself as the man to explain the Russian to an often perplexed west.Their close association goes back to Berlusconi\"s second stint as prime minister, in 2001-06. In April 2008 Berlusconi hosted Putin at his luxurious Sardinian villa, with Berlusconi visiting Putin's residence near St Petersburg last year. Putin also phoned Berlusconi in his hospital bed after he was attacked and lost several teeth last year.Soon after his release from hospital in December, after being attacked in the street by a disgruntled voter wielding a replica gothic cathedral, Berlusconi appeared sporting a Russian Federation navy jacket. The sweatshirt with its double-headed Russian eagle logo was a gift from Putin.Ultimately, of course, the relationship is about business. Thirty per cent of Italy's oil and gas imports already come from Russia and commercial ties between the countries have almost tripled since 2000.Tom Kington", "tags": ["Alexander Litvinenko", "Russia", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alexander Litvinenko's father finds little sanctuary in Italy"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:07:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "God is everywhere, at least according to those who believe in Him. So is the internet: it's global, ubiquitous and has \u2013 according to its evangelists \u2013 slipped the surly bonds of nation states. The trouble is that those who use it have to reside within legal jurisdictions.And therein lies a big problem, one aspect of which surfaced last week, in Italy, where a judge handed out prison sentences to three senior US-based Google executives for \"violating privacy\" by allowing a video showing a handicapped Italian schoolboy being physically and verbally abused to be posted online.This judgment provoked astonished indignation on the net, especially among American commentators. \"Why,\" fumed Mike Butcher on TechCrunch, an influential technology blog, \"did someone not explain to this idiot judge that the video was NOT uploaded by these Google executives?\"And, he went on: \"Italy needs to get its act together and fast. I'm calling on Italian entrepreneurs, many of whom I know and respect, to get involved in this issue. At a time when European countries are weighed down by regulation and stupid rulings like this one, especially during a period of huge economic upheaval, it is not enough to stand by and watch travesties like this go by. Do the young people of Italy and the rest of Europe, so many of whom are huge enthusiasts of the web and the power it gives them to drag themselves up by their bootstraps without the need for state help, deserve to have decrepit judges decide their economic future?\"One can see why Butcher is annoyed. The video in question was made in May 2006 and posted on 8 September to Google Video \u2013 the hosting service that Google closed after it bought YouTube. It reportedly showed a boy with Down's syndrome being beaten and insulted by bullies at a Turin school. On 7 November Google took it down \"within hours\" of being contacted by Italian police. But it had left it up for two whole months despite comments from viewers allegedly protesting about it.Google points out that \"none of the four Googlers charged had anything to do with this video. They did not appear in it, film it, upload it or review it. None of them know the people involved or were even aware of the video's existence until after it was removed\". All of which is true, but doesn't quite get around the fact that, as senior executives, they are also responsible for what their company does, and are remunerated from the profits that it makes. YouTube may not yet be a big money-spinner for Google; but it isn't a non-for-profit venture either. And then there's that awkward matter of the two months it took to take down the video.The company intends to appeal against the convictions, which makes sense on due-process grounds and also because the costs of doing what the judgment implies is necessary \u2013 ie previewing every uploaded track before making it public \u2014 would be huge. The Guardian's Charles Arthur has calculated that to review the 20 hours of video footage uploaded to YouTube every minute would require 3,600 people working eight-hour shifts, 365 days a year. That would blow a neat hole in even Google's astronomical profits.Whatever the outcome, though, the legal spat is just the latest symptom of an underlying structural problem, namely the mismatch between the internet's global reach and the fact that we live in a world of sovereign states. Everywhere one looks one finds evidence of the tensions between the two systems: French judges forbidding Yahoo selling Nazi memorabilia on its auction site; German judges objecting to neo-Nazi discussions groups hosted in the US, where they are protected by the First Amendment; the Chinese government objecting to any mention of Falun Gong; British laws outlawing child porn sites; or the Iranian regime objecting to just about everything. Like climate change, the gap between what the internet can do and what local authorities will allow is a global problem requiring a global solution, which is why we're unlikely ever to solve it.In the case of the Google Three, however, it's likely that they will be vindicated because even if the Italian appeal fails, there is always the possibility of recourse to the European Court in Strasbourg, which will take the view that European Union law, as currently drafted, appears to give hosting providers a safe harbour from liability so long as they remove illegal content once they are notified of its existence. The downside of this, of course, is that Google will have to be much more responsive to complaints, which will make it much easier to have videos taken down because the prudent course will always be to \"take down first and ask questions later\".The glory days of YouTube may be coming to an end. And Silvio Berlusconi remains at large.", "tags": ["Google", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Technology"], "title": "The Google Three, Italy and Silvio Berlusconi"},{"date": "2010-01-10T16:18:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"The main danger is when they walk along the streets, simply because they are the only ones without a car in Rosarno. Africans cannot report to the police because most of them have no documents and no relatives prepared to vindicate them. Therefore, they are the ideal targets\".The Calabrian writer Antonello Mangano gave a good description of migrant farm workers' conditions in a book provocatively titled \"Africans will save Rosarno. And maybe also Italy\". He wrote it after the uprising of migrants in December 2008 in protest at the umpteenth robbery and shooting by 'Ndrangheta gangs.Two Ivorians were seriously wounded and their friends from Ghana, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Mali, Togo, Eritrea and Sudan joined forces against Italian criminals, collectively reporting the attack to the authorities. \"The African community represented a true anti-mafia movement from the bottom, with courage they lifted their heads, showing a high sense of the state, much higher than our fellow citizens,\" wrote Mangano.And what has since happened to these brave Africans? Further exploitation, further attacks from gangs and citizens, until they had to be evacuated from Rosarno yesterday. These facts are a clear warning that more and more migrants in Italy are reaching the end of their tether, due to the hostility caused by a political and media criminalisation campaign against the clandestini. \"We must be resolute against clandestine immigration,\" the interior minister, Roberto Maroni \u2013 a Northern League politician \u2013 keeps on repeating like a mantra.Over 300 cases of violence of this kind have been reported in the last two years, mainly against the Roma people, Romanians and Africans. Human rights organisations and trade unions expressed serious concerns until the Italian government was called upon by some European and UN bodies, such as the Council of Europe and the International Labour Organisation, to answer accusations of xenophobia and discrimination against foreign workers, either legal or illegal.The Vatican had also condemned the rampant climate of racism nourished by irresponsible politicians. The opposition Democratic party has managed only some belated, timid criticism of these events; even the neo-fascist Gianfranco Fini, the speaker of the lower house of parliament, sounded more progressive when he proposed that migrants be allowed to vote in local elections; migrants' children born in Italy get citizenship; and the waiting period for adult citizenship be shortened. But while Fini tries to represent an alternative, democratic right, Maroni is definitely a hardliner.Under the pretext of security last May he started the policy of \"push-backs\", intercepting in international waters boats full of Africans hoping to reach Sicily and sending them back to Libya \u2013 even though the UN high commissioner for refugees opposed a practice that openly violates the 1951 Geneva convention on the status of refugees. Actually a large majority of those who try to enter Europe through Italy or Malta flee from conflicts and persecutions in central and eastern Africa, and push-backs leave no chance for protection claims. Indifferent to its international obligations and to these human sufferings, the Italian government indiscriminately drives people back to a country with poor respect for any civil rights. Once they get to Tripoli, migrants are harassed and locked up in detention centres for months, years sometimes.Even worse, Italy is exchanging migrants for business opportunities. In 2008 the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, signed an agreement on colonial compensation with Muammar Gaddafi. The deal foresees a \u20ac5bn investment in infrastructure and housing over 25 years, and an increase in Libyan oil for the Italian market. With the help of Gaddafi the government might push the problem of migrants even further away: a new \u20ac10m project financed by the European commission will set up patrols along Libya's southern border in the desert, involving Italy, other EU states and the European agency Frontex.But the Italian government's hypocrisy goes further. Eritrea's president, Isaias Afewerki, is considered by the UN as one of the most brutal dictators in the world, and his regime was accused by Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, of aiding Islamic radicals linked to al-Qaida in Somalia. But for the Italian prime minister he is just a good business partner. In what is a former Italian colony, Italian investments range from Italcantieri, a company linked to Berlusconi's family, to tourist projects on the Red Sea and textile firms that benefit from cheap and union-free labour. According to the weekly news magazine l'Espresso, in September a delegation of Afewerki's advisers met the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini, and it seems they praised the push-back policy, as it helps to keep out their political dissidents. Wherever these Africans are now, it is doubtful if they can do much to save their own country, let alone ours.", "tags": ["Italy", "Human rights", "Immigration and asylum", "Mafia", "Libya", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Italy: a country united by racism | Vittorio Longhi"},{"date": "2010-03-10T18:48:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Google and the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage have reached an agreement to digitise up to a million out-of-copyright works at the national libraries in Florence and Rome, including some by Galileo.And it's just two weeks after an Italian court gave three Google executives suspended prison sentences over a video of bullying on YouTube that had been removed once the company was told about it. Google is not only to work closely together with the Italian libraries, but also with the Italian ministry of culture \u2013 the first time that the search engine has had a government department a such a close partner on such a project. Google called it a \"groundbreaking deal\". \"The libraries will select the works to be digitised from their collections, which include a wealth of rare historical books, including scientific works, literature from the period of the founding of Italy and the works of Italy's most famous poets and writers,\" says Google's strategic partner development manager, Gino Mattiuzzo, in a blogpost announcing the deal.While the costs will be covered fully by Google, the company will pass the scans on. The books will be available to groups including the EU's Europeana project, which already has scanned 6 million digital items of cultural value. \"We believe today's announcement is an important step, and we look forward to working with more libraries and other partners,\" says Mattiuzzo. Google has similar arrangements with Oxford University, Madrid's Complutense University, the Bavarian state museum and others. However, it's not clear whether Google is creating the world's biggest library or the world's biggest bookshop. Some fear the search engine is exploiting cultural heritage as a cheap context for advertising. Recently, a New York judge postponed a decision on whether the company should be allowed to display parts of books still in-copyright. Google on the other hand claims good intentions: \"We envision a future in which people will be able to search and access the world's books anywhere, anytime. After all, Antonio Beccadelli and Anastasius Germonius \u2013 like Shakespeare and Cervantes \u2013 are part of our human cultural history.\" ", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Media", "Ebooks", "Books"], "title": "Google partners with Italy for groundbreaking book scanning deal"},{"date": "2010-03-09T00:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For Walter Litvinenko, it was a difficult but necessary step. After his son Alexander was murdered in London in 2006 in the most scandalous political killing since the cold war, Walter fled Russia for sanctuary in western Europe. He chose Italy. It offered a new, anonymous, KGB-free life.But two years after arriving in the sleepy seaside town of Senigallia on the Adriatic coast, Litvinenko says his family is being persecuted once again, their restaurant raided and closed down, their request for asylum repeatedly refused despite evidence that they would be at risk in Russia. Now, he says, they have run out of money and rely on charity handouts for food. For Litvinenko, there is only one plausible explanation: Silvio Berlusconi's unwillingness to upset the Kremlin or his friend, Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin.\"We have fallen victim to a political game,\" Litvinenko said today, speaking from the cramped flat he shares with eight relatives. \"Berlusconi is no better than Putin. All European governments have been flirting with Putin. Berlusconi's dependence on him, and on Russian gas, means that we don't get asylum.\"Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent turned dissident, was poisoned with a radioactive isotope, sparking theories that the Kremlin ordered the killing. A British police investigation resulted in a failed attempt to extradite another former KGB agent, Andrei Lugovoi.Walter Litvinenko, 71, arrived in Italy in April 2008 with his wife, Lyuba. Their daughter Tatiana \u2013 Alexander Litvinenko's half-sister \u2013 and her husband and their two children followed eight months later, joining Walter's son Maxim Litvinenko, his wife and young daughter. At this point the Litvinenkos applied for asylum.At the same time they opened a restaurant in the tourist resort of Rimini. Maxim Litvinenko, who moved to Italy nine years ago, is a professional chef. But soon after opening their business, and securing local permissions, the police informed them they were operating illegally, with one room lacking planning permission.On 31 October 2009 police burst into the restaurant at 12.45am, complaining of \"loud music\". Tatiana says the last guests had left at midnight and the family were quietly clearing up. The police demanded to see the Litvinenkos' papers. When Tatiana told them her documents were in her flat, a short walk away, one policeman grabbed her roughly by the arm, she says. \"I struggled free. He then chased after me and pushed me from behind. I smashed my head on the marble floor. I lost consciousness.\" She says she suffered concussion. \"I felt groggy for days. I had to see the doctor.\"The restaurant, La Terrazza, was finally shut down in November. The Litvinenkos were forced to move to a cheaper flat down the coast in nearby Senigallia.The family say they do not know if the harassment has been authorised at the highest levels. \"I thought Europe had 100% rule of law. We discovered in Italy this isn't true. It's connections and the mafia. It's as if we never arrived in Europe but ended up in some Russian province,\" Tatiana says.Italian immigration officials have interrogated the family twice. According to Tatiana, they expressed little interest in why the Litvinenkos fled their home in the southern Russian town of Nalchik. Instead, they wanted to know how they had come to Italy and whether their visas had been forged.Britain's own offers of asylum to high-profile Russian exiles including Litvinenko and his patron, Boris Berezovsky, have long infuriated Russia. Berlusconi has chosen to avoid the same mistake, Walter Litvinenko says.Paolo Guzzanti, a former senator in Berlusconi's Forza Italia party who fell out with the prime minister over his friendship with Putin, said it was likely that Berlusconi had blocked the asylum applications. \"I have no confirmation of this, but it seems obvious, given the brotherly relationship between Putin and Berlusconi, that all possible obstacles to granting asylum will be raised in order to slow down the procedure or make it impossible,\" he said.A spokesman for Berlusconi insisted the prime minister's relationship with Putin had nothing to do with decisions about the Litvinenko family. He said: \"With requests for asylum, including from countries like Russia, there are European procedures that Italy follows. It has nothing to do with personal relationships between leaders and nothing to do with politics.\"Two weeks ago Walter Litvinenko published an open letter on a human rights website named after Anna Politkovskaya (www.annaviva.com), the journalist and Kremlin critic murdered in Moscow in 2006. He said Berlusconi had made the Litvinenkos' situation unbearable. Despite assurances that their case would be swiftly resolved nothing had happened, he said. \"It's clear Berlusconi is dragging this process out for as long as possible,\" he added.On Sunday the Litvinenkos spent their last euros. They bought 10 eggs. The family \u2013 including two adults over 70 and two small children \u2013 are currently sharing a tiny three-bedroom flat. There is no hot water and only two hours a day of heating. A local church gives them bread and apples; otherwise they eat pancakes.The Litvinenkos have to pay \u20ac540 for next month's rent. Currently, they say, they have no idea how to find it.Walter Litvinenko blames Putin for the family's misfortune. \"He killed my son. He's a sick man,\" he says. Tatiana, however, refuses to criticise Putin and focuses on Berezovsky. \"My brother defended him. But he's clearly not interested in us.\" She admits, however, that she has not asked Berezovsky for anything.Walter hardly ever leaves the flat. With its quiet seaside cafes and off-season feel, Senigallia seems a perfect place to escape from the Russian state and its agents.Yet Walter admits he is worried the same fate that befell his son might await him too. \"There is a certain subconscious fear. In Nalchik I wasn't afraid because I knew everybody's faces. Here it's different. At any moment a person could come up to you, and that would be the end.\"Additional reporting: Giancarlo Castello and Tom Kington in RomeSilvio Berlusconi is Vladimir Putin's most ardent friend in Europe, and sees himself as the man to explain the Russian to an often perplexed west.Their close association goes back to Berlusconi\"s second stint as prime minister, in 2001-06. In April 2008 Berlusconi hosted Putin at his luxurious Sardinian villa, with Berlusconi visiting Putin's residence near St Petersburg last year. Putin also phoned Berlusconi in his hospital bed after he was attacked and lost several teeth last year.Soon after his release from hospital in December, after being attacked in the street by a disgruntled voter wielding a replica gothic cathedral, Berlusconi appeared sporting a Russian Federation navy jacket. The sweatshirt with its double-headed Russian eagle logo was a gift from Putin.Ultimately, of course, the relationship is about business. Thirty per cent of Italy's oil and gas imports already come from Russia and commercial ties between the countries have almost tripled since 2000.Tom Kington", "tags": ["Alexander Litvinenko", "Russia", "Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alexander Litvinenko's father finds little sanctuary in Italy"},{"date": "2010-02-24T14:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Google responded furiously today after an Italian court found three of its executives guilty of violating the privacy of a child with autism who was shown being bullied in a video posted on its site.The company vowed to appeal against the ruling, which it described as \"an attack on the fundamental principles of freedom on which the internet was built\". The three executives were given six-month suspended sentences.The two prosecutors who brought the case against the US-based firm praised the ruling for protecting personal interest above corporate profit.\"We are very satisfied because by means of this trial we have posed a serious problem: that is to say, the protection of human beings, which must prevail over corporate interests,\" they said in a statement.The video, which showed the boy being beaten and insulted, was made by four students at a Turin secondary school in May 2006. It was posted to Google Video on 8 September and remained there until 7 November, when it was taken down after a complaint by Italian police.The case has potentially vast implications for the future of the internet. Hosting platforms such as Facebook and YouTube argue that they cannot be held responsible for content created by their users until they are informed that something is illegal. The Italian prosecutors contended that Google was negligent in not removing the video sooner.This issue became fundamental to the trial. Google's lawyers said the company had taken the video off the site within three hours of being formally notified by the Italian police. But the prosecution argued that it had shot to the top of the most-viewed list and been a subject of heated controversy long before.The indictments had been sought by a local lobby group for people with Down's syndrome, and the four Google executives were sent for trial before a Milan judge, charged with libel. Three, including Google's senior vice-president and chief legal officer, David Drummond, were also charged with privacy violations.The judge, Oscar Magi, dismissed the libel accusations but upheld the other charges. The other two people sentenced were Google's retired chief financial officer George Reyes and its global privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer. The judge also ordered that a summary of the sentence should be published in all of Italy's main national daily newspapers.The Down's syndrome lobby group and Milan city council, both of whom have sought damages for libel, had their petitions rejected. The relatives of the boy who was shown being bullied had also brought a civil suit against the executives, but their case was dropped.All of Google's employees, who were convicted in absentia, denied wrong\u00addoing. It is expected that the company's lawyers will argue on appeal that the verdict is at odds with an EU directive from 2000 that gave hosting platforms a so-called \"safe harbour\" from prosecution, so long as they acted promptly to remove illegal content.In a statement, Google called the outcome of the case \"surprising to say the least, since our colleagues had nothing to do with the video in question: they did not make it; they did not upload it, and they have not seen it.\"We are deeply troubled by this conviction for another equally important reason,\" it added. \"It attacks the very principles of freedom on which the internet is built. Common sense dictates that only the person who films and uploads a video to a hosting platform could take the steps necessary to protect the privacy and obtain the consent of the people they are filming.\"The prosecutors maintained that \"this was not a trial about freedom of the internet as some have said. Instead, and for the first time in Italy, a serious issue has been raised about the rights of the individual in today's society.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Internet", "Italy", "Technology", "World news", "Privacy", "Europe"], "title": "Google executives convicted in Italy over abuse video"},{"date": "2010-04-30T23:06:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For some time I'd been hearing rumours of a pizzeria where the cooking was akin to alchemy, where the chef harnessed all the forces of nature, where the pizzas were magical. Italian friends were unable, or unwilling, to tell me how to find this place. I'd collected a few clues, and I knew the region was Campania, but I'd yet to work out its exact location.Then, quite by chance, as I planned a house hunting trip to the area, an estate agent recommended a little hotel \"where they make the most delicious pizza\". Had I stumbled across the location? A few phone calls all but confirmed my hunch. I immediately booked flights to Naples, rented a car, reserved a room and bought a map.I suppose I was expecting somewhere grand \u2013 an old palazzo perhaps, a temple to Italian cuisine \u2013 but Pizzeria Anna, in the small town of Agropoli, is a place without pretension. The dining room is brightly lit, none of the chairs or tables match and there are three TVs showing football and game shows. I ordered the pizza a sorpresa, the surprise, which turned out to be divided into eight sections, each representing a different selection from the menu. It arrived like a painting, like a masterpiece you see, smell and eat. The base was light and crisp \u2013 not too crisp, but nowhere near soft or spongy. One section was a sample of the remarkable and rare duchessa \u2013 a ham and mashed potato pizza, which tasted much better than it sounds, and was not at all stodgy or bland.Another section held perfectly cooked squid and huge, succulent prawns. Yet another was a triangle of salad, with rocket leaves, slivers of carrot and what I think were pumpkin flowers. Elsewhere there was creamy mozzarella, fragrant basil and a rich, sweet, almost fruity tomato sauce. I travel to Italy regularly and I eat plenty of pizza so believe me when I tell you that this was extraordinary.Pizzeria Anna is run by Anna Scola. Her husband Domenico is the chef or pizzaiolo; her daughters Caterina and Maria Carmela are the waitresses. Domenico's nickname is Baffo, meaning moustache, on account of his facial hair. The girls are known as the Baffo staff. Despite the laid-back dining experience, the cooking is handled with the utmost seriousness. There are certificates on the walls confirming that the tomatoes used in the sauce are indeed sweet San Marzano plum tomatoes grown on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, there are framed letters assuring customers that the mozzarella is most definitely from buffalo reared in the marsh meadows north of Naples. There are citations from numerous organisations: L'Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana and La Nazionale Italiana Pizzaioli. Baffo's business card reads \"specialist in the research and development of the noble art of the pizza\". Pizzeria Anna even has its own vineyard, producing the perfect wines to accompany the food. I cannot recommend it more highly.Pizzeria Anna is right on Agropoli's seafront in the Cilento national park. The Cilento is a wild and rugged landscape, where wolves and wild boar roam among abandoned medieval villages and ancient Greek temples. The beaches are pristine white and the coastal waters are a vivid turquoise. But you won't find many tourists there because the area is not well served by international airports. So you can use Italy's great rail network, or do what I did \u2013 fly to Naples, pick up a hire car and head south along the coast. You can call in at Vesuvius, Pompeii, Sorrento, Positano, Amalfi and Paestum on the way to Agropoli \u2013 a great way to build up an appetite.\u2022 Pizzeria Anna (+39 0974 823763, ristorantepizzeriaanna.it). B&B Anna (+39 0974 823763) above the restaurant has doubles from \u20ac65-\u20ac100. Easyjet, Thomson and Thomas Cook fly to Naples from various UK airports. Car hire from Naples airport with Atlas Choice from around \u00a3165 per week.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Restaurants", "Naples holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Is this the best pizzeria in Italy?"},{"date": "2010-04-30T23:06:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For some time I'd been hearing rumours of a pizzeria where the cooking was akin to alchemy, where the chef harnessed all the forces of nature, where the pizzas were magical. Italian friends were unable, or unwilling, to tell me how to find this place. I'd collected a few clues, and I knew the region was Campania, but I'd yet to work out its exact location.Then, quite by chance, as I planned a house hunting trip to the area, an estate agent recommended a little hotel \"where they make the most delicious pizza\". Had I stumbled across the location? A few phone calls all but confirmed my hunch. I immediately booked flights to Naples, rented a car, reserved a room and bought a map.I suppose I was expecting somewhere grand \u2013 an old palazzo perhaps, a temple to Italian cuisine \u2013 but Pizzeria Anna, in the small town of Agropoli, is a place without pretension. The dining room is brightly lit, none of the chairs or tables match and there are three TVs showing football and game shows. I ordered the pizza a sorpresa, the surprise, which turned out to be divided into eight sections, each representing a different selection from the menu. It arrived like a painting, like a masterpiece you see, smell and eat. The base was light and crisp \u2013 not too crisp, but nowhere near soft or spongy. One section was a sample of the remarkable and rare duchessa \u2013 a ham and mashed potato pizza, which tasted much better than it sounds, and was not at all stodgy or bland.Another section held perfectly cooked squid and huge, succulent prawns. Yet another was a triangle of salad, with rocket leaves, slivers of carrot and what I think were pumpkin flowers. Elsewhere there was creamy mozzarella, fragrant basil and a rich, sweet, almost fruity tomato sauce. I travel to Italy regularly and I eat plenty of pizza so believe me when I tell you that this was extraordinary.Pizzeria Anna is run by Anna Scola. Her husband Domenico is the chef or pizzaiolo; her daughters Caterina and Maria Carmela are the waitresses. Domenico's nickname is Baffo, meaning moustache, on account of his facial hair. The girls are known as the Baffo staff. Despite the laid-back dining experience, the cooking is handled with the utmost seriousness. There are certificates on the walls confirming that the tomatoes used in the sauce are indeed sweet San Marzano plum tomatoes grown on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, there are framed letters assuring customers that the mozzarella is most definitely from buffalo reared in the marsh meadows north of Naples. There are citations from numerous organisations: L'Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana and La Nazionale Italiana Pizzaioli. Baffo's business card reads \"specialist in the research and development of the noble art of the pizza\". Pizzeria Anna even has its own vineyard, producing the perfect wines to accompany the food. I cannot recommend it more highly.Pizzeria Anna is right on Agropoli's seafront in the Cilento national park. The Cilento is a wild and rugged landscape, where wolves and wild boar roam among abandoned medieval villages and ancient Greek temples. The beaches are pristine white and the coastal waters are a vivid turquoise. But you won't find many tourists there because the area is not well served by international airports. So you can use Italy's great rail network, or do what I did \u2013 fly to Naples, pick up a hire car and head south along the coast. You can call in at Vesuvius, Pompeii, Sorrento, Positano, Amalfi and Paestum on the way to Agropoli \u2013 a great way to build up an appetite.\u2022 Pizzeria Anna (+39 0974 823763, ristorantepizzeriaanna.it). B&B Anna (+39 0974 823763) above the restaurant has doubles from \u20ac65-\u20ac100. Easyjet, Thomson and Thomas Cook fly to Naples from various UK airports. Car hire from Naples airport with Atlas Choice from around \u00a3165 per week.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Restaurants", "Naples holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Is this the best pizzeria in Italy?"},{"date": "2010-06-28T20:04:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than a hundred companies were today sequestered, 24 people arrested and property and cash worth more than \u20ac100m (\u00a381.4m) impounded in what is thought to be one of the biggest operations against Chinese organised crime in Europe.Italy's semi-militarised revenue guard, the Guardia di Finanza, said it had smashed two money-laundering networks which, since 2006, had smuggled back to China some \u20ac2.7bn largely amassed by a burgeoning counterfeit fashion industry run by Chinese criminals based in Tuscany. More than 1,000 officers took part in raids throughout Italy that also led to the impounding of 166 luxury vehicles.The raids follow growing alarm over criminal activity among the Chinese community. Earlier this month, the Chinese ambassador to Rome travelled to the Tuscan textile manufacturing city of Prato to meet officials after a Chinese employer was shot dead by hooded gunmen and two of his compatriots were hacked to death with machetes in a cafeteria.Laura Canovai, the prosecutor investigating the murders, said last week: \"The Chinese community is not helping us. It is not co-operating with the authorities.\"According to a statement from the revenue guard, one of two money transfer firms at the centre of today's operation was based in San Marino and had branches in other European cities, including London. The second was run by two families, one Italian and the other Chinese.To get around restrictions on international money transfers that limit individuals to \u20ac2,000 every eight days, the firm had arranged for money to be divided into lots just under the maximum. These were then paid into the firm's account using identification from several different people.Brigadier General Gaetano Mastropierro, who led the police operation from Florence, said: \"That made this an unusual investigation. Usually, you start with known crimes and work back to the laundering of the proceeds. But in this instance we had a sea of money that was apparently being transferred legally, but which we suspected came from criminal activity. A large part of the investigation was devoted to proving the money came from counterfeiting, tax evasion, immoral earnings and migrant trafficking.\"He said his officers had been unable to establish links between the Chinese family, from Hubei in central China, and known organised crime syndicates such as the triads. But a source close to the investigation said prosecutors would seek to have several suspects indicted for organised crime offences on the grounds that the inquiry had uncovered evidence of mafia-like activity, including intimidation and extortion.Of those arrested, seven were Italians and 17 Chinese. Another 134 people were cautioned as suspects. In 2008, revenue guards stopped a car in which a Chinese businessman was carrying \u20ac548,000 to a money transfer bureau. Subsequent investigation revealed he was declaring only 7% of his profits to the Italian tax authorities.Many of the firms caught up in the operation used cheap, imported Chinese textiles to produce bogus Italian fashion garments for export to eastern Europe.The inquiries also led detectives to brothels disguised as massage parlours and beauty salons, and to sweat shops in which the workers were found to be illegal immigrants who had had their identity documents confiscated by traffickers.", "tags": ["Organised crime", "Italy", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Chinese crime networks targeted by raids in Italy"},{"date": "2010-04-30T23:06:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For some time I'd been hearing rumours of a pizzeria where the cooking was akin to alchemy, where the chef harnessed all the forces of nature, where the pizzas were magical. Italian friends were unable, or unwilling, to tell me how to find this place. I'd collected a few clues, and I knew the region was Campania, but I'd yet to work out its exact location.Then, quite by chance, as I planned a house hunting trip to the area, an estate agent recommended a little hotel \"where they make the most delicious pizza\". Had I stumbled across the location? A few phone calls all but confirmed my hunch. I immediately booked flights to Naples, rented a car, reserved a room and bought a map.I suppose I was expecting somewhere grand \u2013 an old palazzo perhaps, a temple to Italian cuisine \u2013 but Pizzeria Anna, in the small town of Agropoli, is a place without pretension. The dining room is brightly lit, none of the chairs or tables match and there are three TVs showing football and game shows. I ordered the pizza a sorpresa, the surprise, which turned out to be divided into eight sections, each representing a different selection from the menu. It arrived like a painting, like a masterpiece you see, smell and eat. The base was light and crisp \u2013 not too crisp, but nowhere near soft or spongy. One section was a sample of the remarkable and rare duchessa \u2013 a ham and mashed potato pizza, which tasted much better than it sounds, and was not at all stodgy or bland.Another section held perfectly cooked squid and huge, succulent prawns. Yet another was a triangle of salad, with rocket leaves, slivers of carrot and what I think were pumpkin flowers. Elsewhere there was creamy mozzarella, fragrant basil and a rich, sweet, almost fruity tomato sauce. I travel to Italy regularly and I eat plenty of pizza so believe me when I tell you that this was extraordinary.Pizzeria Anna is run by Anna Scola. Her husband Domenico is the chef or pizzaiolo; her daughters Caterina and Maria Carmela are the waitresses. Domenico's nickname is Baffo, meaning moustache, on account of his facial hair. The girls are known as the Baffo staff. Despite the laid-back dining experience, the cooking is handled with the utmost seriousness. There are certificates on the walls confirming that the tomatoes used in the sauce are indeed sweet San Marzano plum tomatoes grown on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, there are framed letters assuring customers that the mozzarella is most definitely from buffalo reared in the marsh meadows north of Naples. There are citations from numerous organisations: L'Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana and La Nazionale Italiana Pizzaioli. Baffo's business card reads \"specialist in the research and development of the noble art of the pizza\". Pizzeria Anna even has its own vineyard, producing the perfect wines to accompany the food. I cannot recommend it more highly.Pizzeria Anna is right on Agropoli's seafront in the Cilento national park. The Cilento is a wild and rugged landscape, where wolves and wild boar roam among abandoned medieval villages and ancient Greek temples. The beaches are pristine white and the coastal waters are a vivid turquoise. But you won't find many tourists there because the area is not well served by international airports. So you can use Italy's great rail network, or do what I did \u2013 fly to Naples, pick up a hire car and head south along the coast. You can call in at Vesuvius, Pompeii, Sorrento, Positano, Amalfi and Paestum on the way to Agropoli \u2013 a great way to build up an appetite.\u2022 Pizzeria Anna (+39 0974 823763, ristorantepizzeriaanna.it). B&B Anna (+39 0974 823763) above the restaurant has doubles from \u20ac65-\u20ac100. Easyjet, Thomson and Thomas Cook fly to Naples from various UK airports. Car hire from Naples airport with Atlas Choice from around \u00a3165 per week.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Restaurants", "Naples holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Is this the best pizzeria in Italy?"},{"date": "2010-06-28T20:04:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than a hundred companies were today sequestered, 24 people arrested and property and cash worth more than \u20ac100m (\u00a381.4m) impounded in what is thought to be one of the biggest operations against Chinese organised crime in Europe.Italy's semi-militarised revenue guard, the Guardia di Finanza, said it had smashed two money-laundering networks which, since 2006, had smuggled back to China some \u20ac2.7bn largely amassed by a burgeoning counterfeit fashion industry run by Chinese criminals based in Tuscany. More than 1,000 officers took part in raids throughout Italy that also led to the impounding of 166 luxury vehicles.The raids follow growing alarm over criminal activity among the Chinese community. Earlier this month, the Chinese ambassador to Rome travelled to the Tuscan textile manufacturing city of Prato to meet officials after a Chinese employer was shot dead by hooded gunmen and two of his compatriots were hacked to death with machetes in a cafeteria.Laura Canovai, the prosecutor investigating the murders, said last week: \"The Chinese community is not helping us. It is not co-operating with the authorities.\"According to a statement from the revenue guard, one of two money transfer firms at the centre of today's operation was based in San Marino and had branches in other European cities, including London. The second was run by two families, one Italian and the other Chinese.To get around restrictions on international money transfers that limit individuals to \u20ac2,000 every eight days, the firm had arranged for money to be divided into lots just under the maximum. These were then paid into the firm's account using identification from several different people.Brigadier General Gaetano Mastropierro, who led the police operation from Florence, said: \"That made this an unusual investigation. Usually, you start with known crimes and work back to the laundering of the proceeds. But in this instance we had a sea of money that was apparently being transferred legally, but which we suspected came from criminal activity. A large part of the investigation was devoted to proving the money came from counterfeiting, tax evasion, immoral earnings and migrant trafficking.\"He said his officers had been unable to establish links between the Chinese family, from Hubei in central China, and known organised crime syndicates such as the triads. But a source close to the investigation said prosecutors would seek to have several suspects indicted for organised crime offences on the grounds that the inquiry had uncovered evidence of mafia-like activity, including intimidation and extortion.Of those arrested, seven were Italians and 17 Chinese. Another 134 people were cautioned as suspects. In 2008, revenue guards stopped a car in which a Chinese businessman was carrying \u20ac548,000 to a money transfer bureau. Subsequent investigation revealed he was declaring only 7% of his profits to the Italian tax authorities.Many of the firms caught up in the operation used cheap, imported Chinese textiles to produce bogus Italian fashion garments for export to eastern Europe.The inquiries also led detectives to brothels disguised as massage parlours and beauty salons, and to sweat shops in which the workers were found to be illegal immigrants who had had their identity documents confiscated by traffickers.", "tags": ["Organised crime", "Italy", "China", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Chinese crime networks targeted by raids in Italy"},{"date": "2010-06-24T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "They are ageing, clapped-out flops who were written off by their countrymen even before they set out for South Africa. Two dull draws later and desperately needing victory against Slovakia today, the Italian national team is doing its best to live up to its billing, sending out misfiring strikers and a bungling 36-year-old captain, Fabio Cannavaro, who is shredding the reputation he built four years ago when he steered the Azzurri to the World Cup.Just another fallen European side? Not quite. Not only are Italians underwhelmed by the \"Heroes of Berlin\", but 10 million of them, if you believe government minister Umberto Bossi, are actually rooting for an entirely different national team, called Padania.Flushed with success, Bossi took a cruel swipe at Cannavaro and co on Tuesday when he was asked about Italy's chances of beating Slovakia and squeezing through to the knockout phase of the other World Cup. \"They will buy the game in any case,\" he growled. \"Wait and see, next season there will be two or three Slovakian players joining Italian teams.\"Coming from one of Italy's most powerful politicians, the statement drew howls of rage and even a polite rebuke from Giancarlo Abete, the head of Italy's football federation who said he had \"overstepped the mark\". It all prompted Bossi to make a rare U-turn, later saying: \"I was joking, I hope Italy win the World Cup.\"Far from Padania some Italians still fancied watching Italy, according to the Fiat boss Sergio Marchionne, who accused staff at a Fiat plant in Sicily of planning a strike to neatly coincide with Italy's opening game against Paraguay. Calling the accusation \"shameful\", union leaders announced they would respond to the insult by going back on strike.In Turin thousands of viewers who got home in time for Italy's second outing against New Zealand on Sunday were furious when a suspected lightning strike at a power station blacked out the second half on the state network, RAI. Fortunately the national team chose the moment to have a blackout of its own, failing to overcome the Kiwis and prompting the RAI presenter to welcome back viewers after the power cut with the words \"you didn't miss anything\".Marcello Lippi has put his trust in faithful, if ageing players such as Cannavaro, who fled Juventus to Real Madrid before drifting back to Turin and, despite doubts over his form, bounced back into the national side. By taking nine players over 30 to South Africa and leaving behind the prodigal, if wayward, talents Antonio Cassano and Mario Balotelli, Lippi ensured his side resembled many Italian organisations \u2013 risk-free zones where support for the boss goes a long way and young up-and-comers face years on the sidelines.\"You just can't cast doubt on someone like Cannavaro,\" said Gianluca Zambrotta after the captain made a mess of a free-kick allowing New Zealand to take the lead on Sunday.By this time, however, readers of Gazzetta dello Sport were less inclined to stick up for the veterans, with 69% telling the paper Cannavaro should be dropped. \"There's no panic, I'm 62. I've won lots of big competitions,\" Lippi said blithely after he was left facing a possible toss of a coin to go through should Italy draw today.In the meantime, the Northern League has kept up the pressure by calling on the players to do their bit for the economic crisis by giving up their bonuses should they win the World Cup. After some debate in the changing room, the team responded by saying that if the League really wanted a charitable gesture, they could donate their bonuses to the foundation set up to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the creation of the unified Italian state.After so many dreadful performances, wrote Corriere della Sera, that was \"the perfect counterattack\".", "tags": ["Italy", "World Cup 2010 Group F", "World Cup 2010", "Football", "World Cup"], "title": "World Cup 2010: Stuttering campaign gives Italy splitting headache |Tom Kington"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-09-17T19:15:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Venice film festival, the oldest and one of the most glamorous cinema awards ceremonies in the world, has been overshadowed this year by allegations of nepotism and elitism among the jury, with Silvio Berlusconi's government threatening to intervene and hand pick next year's judges.In a magazine interview published yesterday, the Italian culture minister launched a stinging attack on American film director Quentin Tarantino, who led this year's jury, calling him \"the expression of an elitist, relativist and snobbish culture.\"Sandro Bondi also slammed the judges' choice of winners, which did not include any Italian films, and said he would take part in the selection of next year's jury, \"since [the festival] is financed by the state\". The Italian government contributes \u20ac7m (\u00a35.8m) to the festival's \u20ac12m budget.Bondi told the Italian magazine Panorama that Tarantino \"pays no attention to the sentiment and the tastes of the people and of traditions, which are now considered unsophisticated and outdated. And that vision influences his critical judgment of films, including foreign films\".Tarantino, who specialises in blood-soaked pastiches of trashy B-movies, is not often on the receiving end of accusations of elitism. But it is not the first time his role in the festival has come in for criticism: this week the director was accused of nepotism after presenting several awards to friends.Sofia Coppola, Tarantino's former girlfriend, won the festival's top prize for her film Somewhere, while the Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia, a longtime friend of Tarantino, was awarded best director and best screenplay for his movie, A Sad Trumpet Ballad.The jury also gave a lifetime achievement prize to Tarantino's mentor Monte Hellman, prompting Italian daily Corriere della Sera to accuse the Pulp Fiction director of \"the most obvious conflict of interest possible\".In his interview Bondi did not spare the festival's director Marco Muller, claiming he was excluding \"talent and innovation\" from the awards.Bondi said he had avoided the festival because of the \"insupportable\" snobbery of the cinema establishment.Bondi's plan to hand pick jurors attracted derision from Italian film- makers. Luca Guadagnino, a member of this year's jury, called it \"authoritarian and ridiculous\", while Paolo Ferrari, the head of Warner Brothers in Italy, said it would go beyond the censorship exercised by Mussolini.Allowing the government to select a festival jury \"does not happen in any country in the world,\" said Riccardo Tozzi, the head of the Italian film producers' association ANICA.\"Why doesn't Bondi join the jury himself or even become a director, taking the opportunity to resign and leave the ministry in better hands,\" asked Matteo Orfini, a culture spokesman for the opposition Democratic party.Bondi, 51, who was appointed culture minister by Berlusconi in 2008, is a former communist who in 1994 made a dramatic switch to support the prime minister, going as far as dedicating poems to Berlusconi and claiming he would go to jail for him.He also wrote a 2001 booklet entitled An Italian Story, packed with photos documenting the rise of Berlusconi and his meetings with world leaders, which was mailed to Italian voters. He refused to attend this year's Cannes film festival when he found out it was showing Draquila, an Italian documentary criticising Berlusconi's handling of the relief effort after last year's devastating earthquake in Abruzzo. The film, he said, \"offends the truth and the entire population of Italy\".Shortly after his appointment as minister, Bondi admitted he did not understand modern art and merely pretended to appreciate it when visiting galleries. Yesterday Corriere della Sera wondered if he was able to name any of the films selected for this year's Venice festival.One reason for Bondi's outburst was suggested by Italian producer Domenico Procacci. \"Bondi was motivated by the fact that he wanted an Italian film to win, the goal of a lot of people,\" said Procacci, whose film Barney's Vision was in competition.But the minister denied homegrown talent had been overlooked, stating Italian directors are equally as out of touch with their audiences as Tarantino and Muller. \"There is no authenticity in the scripts, in the language and in the acting,\" he complained.Bondi said he was trying to bring culture closer to the people, \"even if, for certain left-wing intellectuals, 'the people' is something annoying and unsophisticated.\"Anyone wondering what Italian culture minister Sandro Bondi means by cinema for \"the people\" should look out for September 11, 1683, a historical epic now in preproduction which has just received \u00a45.7m in funding from Italian state TV network RAI.The film re-enacts the bloody struggle by Christian soldiers to repel Muslim troops from the gates of Vienna on the date that gives the film its title.According to legend, the Christians were led by the Capuchin friar Marco d'Aviano.\"The title is a deliberate reference to 9/11 and I want audiences to see that both sides were convinced they represented the truth,\" said director Renzo Martinelli, who says he has signed Harvey Keitel to appear as the King of Poland and hopes to cast Joseph Fiennes as d'Aviano.But the Corriere della Sera newspaper warned that the film and its title were \"anti-Islamic\" and could promote violence, adding that its state funding had been backed by Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League party.The league also lobbied for state funding for Martinelli's previous film, Barbarossa, about Italians repelling the army of the Holy Roman Empire in the 12th century, and featuring league leader Umberto Bossi in a cameo.Despite a premiere attended by government ministers, Barbarossa fared badly at the Italian box office.", "tags": ["Venice film festival 2010", "Venice film festival", "Festivals", "Film", "Italy", "Quentin Tarantino", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Venice film festival: Italy turns on Quentin Tarantino over prizes"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-09-17T19:15:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Venice film festival, the oldest and one of the most glamorous cinema awards ceremonies in the world, has been overshadowed this year by allegations of nepotism and elitism among the jury, with Silvio Berlusconi's government threatening to intervene and hand pick next year's judges.In a magazine interview published yesterday, the Italian culture minister launched a stinging attack on American film director Quentin Tarantino, who led this year's jury, calling him \"the expression of an elitist, relativist and snobbish culture.\"Sandro Bondi also slammed the judges' choice of winners, which did not include any Italian films, and said he would take part in the selection of next year's jury, \"since [the festival] is financed by the state\". The Italian government contributes \u20ac7m (\u00a35.8m) to the festival's \u20ac12m budget.Bondi told the Italian magazine Panorama that Tarantino \"pays no attention to the sentiment and the tastes of the people and of traditions, which are now considered unsophisticated and outdated. And that vision influences his critical judgment of films, including foreign films\".Tarantino, who specialises in blood-soaked pastiches of trashy B-movies, is not often on the receiving end of accusations of elitism. But it is not the first time his role in the festival has come in for criticism: this week the director was accused of nepotism after presenting several awards to friends.Sofia Coppola, Tarantino's former girlfriend, won the festival's top prize for her film Somewhere, while the Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia, a longtime friend of Tarantino, was awarded best director and best screenplay for his movie, A Sad Trumpet Ballad.The jury also gave a lifetime achievement prize to Tarantino's mentor Monte Hellman, prompting Italian daily Corriere della Sera to accuse the Pulp Fiction director of \"the most obvious conflict of interest possible\".In his interview Bondi did not spare the festival's director Marco Muller, claiming he was excluding \"talent and innovation\" from the awards.Bondi said he had avoided the festival because of the \"insupportable\" snobbery of the cinema establishment.Bondi's plan to hand pick jurors attracted derision from Italian film- makers. Luca Guadagnino, a member of this year's jury, called it \"authoritarian and ridiculous\", while Paolo Ferrari, the head of Warner Brothers in Italy, said it would go beyond the censorship exercised by Mussolini.Allowing the government to select a festival jury \"does not happen in any country in the world,\" said Riccardo Tozzi, the head of the Italian film producers' association ANICA.\"Why doesn't Bondi join the jury himself or even become a director, taking the opportunity to resign and leave the ministry in better hands,\" asked Matteo Orfini, a culture spokesman for the opposition Democratic party.Bondi, 51, who was appointed culture minister by Berlusconi in 2008, is a former communist who in 1994 made a dramatic switch to support the prime minister, going as far as dedicating poems to Berlusconi and claiming he would go to jail for him.He also wrote a 2001 booklet entitled An Italian Story, packed with photos documenting the rise of Berlusconi and his meetings with world leaders, which was mailed to Italian voters. He refused to attend this year's Cannes film festival when he found out it was showing Draquila, an Italian documentary criticising Berlusconi's handling of the relief effort after last year's devastating earthquake in Abruzzo. The film, he said, \"offends the truth and the entire population of Italy\".Shortly after his appointment as minister, Bondi admitted he did not understand modern art and merely pretended to appreciate it when visiting galleries. Yesterday Corriere della Sera wondered if he was able to name any of the films selected for this year's Venice festival.One reason for Bondi's outburst was suggested by Italian producer Domenico Procacci. \"Bondi was motivated by the fact that he wanted an Italian film to win, the goal of a lot of people,\" said Procacci, whose film Barney's Vision was in competition.But the minister denied homegrown talent had been overlooked, stating Italian directors are equally as out of touch with their audiences as Tarantino and Muller. \"There is no authenticity in the scripts, in the language and in the acting,\" he complained.Bondi said he was trying to bring culture closer to the people, \"even if, for certain left-wing intellectuals, 'the people' is something annoying and unsophisticated.\"Anyone wondering what Italian culture minister Sandro Bondi means by cinema for \"the people\" should look out for September 11, 1683, a historical epic now in preproduction which has just received \u00a45.7m in funding from Italian state TV network RAI.The film re-enacts the bloody struggle by Christian soldiers to repel Muslim troops from the gates of Vienna on the date that gives the film its title.According to legend, the Christians were led by the Capuchin friar Marco d'Aviano.\"The title is a deliberate reference to 9/11 and I want audiences to see that both sides were convinced they represented the truth,\" said director Renzo Martinelli, who says he has signed Harvey Keitel to appear as the King of Poland and hopes to cast Joseph Fiennes as d'Aviano.But the Corriere della Sera newspaper warned that the film and its title were \"anti-Islamic\" and could promote violence, adding that its state funding had been backed by Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League party.The league also lobbied for state funding for Martinelli's previous film, Barbarossa, about Italians repelling the army of the Holy Roman Empire in the 12th century, and featuring league leader Umberto Bossi in a cameo.Despite a premiere attended by government ministers, Barbarossa fared badly at the Italian box office.", "tags": ["Venice film festival 2010", "Venice film festival", "Festivals", "Film", "Italy", "Quentin Tarantino", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Venice film festival: Italy turns on Quentin Tarantino over prizes"},{"date": "2010-08-07T23:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The mayors of some of Italy's most elegant resorts have expressed outrage at a new regulation introduced by Silvio Berlusconi's government that allows beachfront premises to stage drink-and-dance parties seven days a week.Bizarrely, the measure was introduced as part of a revision of the traffic laws whose main purpose was to cut down on drink-driving. The vast majority of Italians get to the seaside by car, scooter or motorbike. Once at the beach, they will now have access to as much drink as they want from 5pm to 8pm before setting off for home or a night out.\"It's unbelievable,\" said Domenico Lombardi, the mayor of Pietrasanta in Tuscany. \"It's like saying to a youngster, 'Before you drive to the discotheque, do a bit more boozing. [Drink] twice as\u00a0much!'\u2009\"Lombardi and other officials on one of Europe's most exclusive stretches of coastline are also worried about the effect the new law could have on tourists who pay handsomely for peace and quiet. At Forte dei Marmi, a favourite with wealthy Russians, the asking price last week for a small two-bedroom flat, 100 yards from the sea, was \u20ac1.2m (\u00a31m).The town's mayor, Umberto Buratti, told the Observer: \"Ours is high-quality tourism. Here we have exactly 100 beach concessions. If they are all allowed to open every evening, we will have 100 beach bar-restaurants and the character of the beach will be changed out of all recognition. People come here looking for peace and quiet.\"However, the president of the Automobile Club of Italy (ACI), Enrico Gelpi, echoed a widespread perception when he said the new act, which came into force at the end of last month, would \"promote more attentive and responsible behaviour on the part of young people, who are particularly exposed to risk on the roads\".Among other things, the legislation requires learner drivers to take a narcotics test as a condition of being issued with a licence. It sets the permitted blood alcohol level for drivers under the age of 21 at virtually nil. But tucked away in article 54, clause\u00a02, is a sentence which says that beach concessions can put on dance parties \"together with the supply of alcoholic beverages every day of the week\".Giordano Biserni, the president of Asaps, a national road safety organisation, said: \"This is a measure that has nothing to do with road safety. On the contrary, it puts it at risk.\"Some councils said they thought they could mitigate the effects of the new legislation with existing municipal bylaws. But one of the sponsors of the amendment that inserted the controversial clause, a Northern League deputy, Gianluca Pini, whose constituency includes the low-cost holiday resorts around Rimini on the Adriatic coast, said: \"They can put a limit on the volume of the music. But they cannot restrict the parties to [for example] only two days [a\u00a0week].\"Italy has one of Europe's worst road safety records. In 2008, the last year for which comparative figures were available, there were 4,731 deaths on the roads out of a population of 58\u00a0million people, according to Tispol, the European Traffic Police Network. In the same year in the UK, which has a population of 61 million, there were 2,538 fatalities. The ACI's figures indicate that 30% of the accidents in Italy involve drivers who have held a licence for less than three years.Seaside areas, packed with discos, have some of the most dangerous roads, particularly at weekends. Last weekend, police on the coast near Rome organised spot checks of 180 drivers, and 25 were found to have been driving under the influence of drink or drugs.", "tags": ["Italy", "Alcohol", "Society", "World news", "Travel", "Italy holidays", "Beach holidays"], "title": "Italy fears a boozy invasion of its exclusive beaches"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-09-17T19:15:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Venice film festival, the oldest and one of the most glamorous cinema awards ceremonies in the world, has been overshadowed this year by allegations of nepotism and elitism among the jury, with Silvio Berlusconi's government threatening to intervene and hand pick next year's judges.In a magazine interview published yesterday, the Italian culture minister launched a stinging attack on American film director Quentin Tarantino, who led this year's jury, calling him \"the expression of an elitist, relativist and snobbish culture.\"Sandro Bondi also slammed the judges' choice of winners, which did not include any Italian films, and said he would take part in the selection of next year's jury, \"since [the festival] is financed by the state\". The Italian government contributes \u20ac7m (\u00a35.8m) to the festival's \u20ac12m budget.Bondi told the Italian magazine Panorama that Tarantino \"pays no attention to the sentiment and the tastes of the people and of traditions, which are now considered unsophisticated and outdated. And that vision influences his critical judgment of films, including foreign films\".Tarantino, who specialises in blood-soaked pastiches of trashy B-movies, is not often on the receiving end of accusations of elitism. But it is not the first time his role in the festival has come in for criticism: this week the director was accused of nepotism after presenting several awards to friends.Sofia Coppola, Tarantino's former girlfriend, won the festival's top prize for her film Somewhere, while the Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia, a longtime friend of Tarantino, was awarded best director and best screenplay for his movie, A Sad Trumpet Ballad.The jury also gave a lifetime achievement prize to Tarantino's mentor Monte Hellman, prompting Italian daily Corriere della Sera to accuse the Pulp Fiction director of \"the most obvious conflict of interest possible\".In his interview Bondi did not spare the festival's director Marco Muller, claiming he was excluding \"talent and innovation\" from the awards.Bondi said he had avoided the festival because of the \"insupportable\" snobbery of the cinema establishment.Bondi's plan to hand pick jurors attracted derision from Italian film- makers. Luca Guadagnino, a member of this year's jury, called it \"authoritarian and ridiculous\", while Paolo Ferrari, the head of Warner Brothers in Italy, said it would go beyond the censorship exercised by Mussolini.Allowing the government to select a festival jury \"does not happen in any country in the world,\" said Riccardo Tozzi, the head of the Italian film producers' association ANICA.\"Why doesn't Bondi join the jury himself or even become a director, taking the opportunity to resign and leave the ministry in better hands,\" asked Matteo Orfini, a culture spokesman for the opposition Democratic party.Bondi, 51, who was appointed culture minister by Berlusconi in 2008, is a former communist who in 1994 made a dramatic switch to support the prime minister, going as far as dedicating poems to Berlusconi and claiming he would go to jail for him.He also wrote a 2001 booklet entitled An Italian Story, packed with photos documenting the rise of Berlusconi and his meetings with world leaders, which was mailed to Italian voters. He refused to attend this year's Cannes film festival when he found out it was showing Draquila, an Italian documentary criticising Berlusconi's handling of the relief effort after last year's devastating earthquake in Abruzzo. The film, he said, \"offends the truth and the entire population of Italy\".Shortly after his appointment as minister, Bondi admitted he did not understand modern art and merely pretended to appreciate it when visiting galleries. Yesterday Corriere della Sera wondered if he was able to name any of the films selected for this year's Venice festival.One reason for Bondi's outburst was suggested by Italian producer Domenico Procacci. \"Bondi was motivated by the fact that he wanted an Italian film to win, the goal of a lot of people,\" said Procacci, whose film Barney's Vision was in competition.But the minister denied homegrown talent had been overlooked, stating Italian directors are equally as out of touch with their audiences as Tarantino and Muller. \"There is no authenticity in the scripts, in the language and in the acting,\" he complained.Bondi said he was trying to bring culture closer to the people, \"even if, for certain left-wing intellectuals, 'the people' is something annoying and unsophisticated.\"Anyone wondering what Italian culture minister Sandro Bondi means by cinema for \"the people\" should look out for September 11, 1683, a historical epic now in preproduction which has just received \u00a45.7m in funding from Italian state TV network RAI.The film re-enacts the bloody struggle by Christian soldiers to repel Muslim troops from the gates of Vienna on the date that gives the film its title.According to legend, the Christians were led by the Capuchin friar Marco d'Aviano.\"The title is a deliberate reference to 9/11 and I want audiences to see that both sides were convinced they represented the truth,\" said director Renzo Martinelli, who says he has signed Harvey Keitel to appear as the King of Poland and hopes to cast Joseph Fiennes as d'Aviano.But the Corriere della Sera newspaper warned that the film and its title were \"anti-Islamic\" and could promote violence, adding that its state funding had been backed by Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League party.The league also lobbied for state funding for Martinelli's previous film, Barbarossa, about Italians repelling the army of the Holy Roman Empire in the 12th century, and featuring league leader Umberto Bossi in a cameo.Despite a premiere attended by government ministers, Barbarossa fared badly at the Italian box office.", "tags": ["Venice film festival 2010", "Venice film festival", "Festivals", "Film", "Italy", "Quentin Tarantino", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Venice film festival: Italy turns on Quentin Tarantino over prizes"},{"date": "2010-08-07T23:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The mayors of some of Italy's most elegant resorts have expressed outrage at a new regulation introduced by Silvio Berlusconi's government that allows beachfront premises to stage drink-and-dance parties seven days a week.Bizarrely, the measure was introduced as part of a revision of the traffic laws whose main purpose was to cut down on drink-driving. The vast majority of Italians get to the seaside by car, scooter or motorbike. Once at the beach, they will now have access to as much drink as they want from 5pm to 8pm before setting off for home or a night out.\"It's unbelievable,\" said Domenico Lombardi, the mayor of Pietrasanta in Tuscany. \"It's like saying to a youngster, 'Before you drive to the discotheque, do a bit more boozing. [Drink] twice as\u00a0much!'\u2009\"Lombardi and other officials on one of Europe's most exclusive stretches of coastline are also worried about the effect the new law could have on tourists who pay handsomely for peace and quiet. At Forte dei Marmi, a favourite with wealthy Russians, the asking price last week for a small two-bedroom flat, 100 yards from the sea, was \u20ac1.2m (\u00a31m).The town's mayor, Umberto Buratti, told the Observer: \"Ours is high-quality tourism. Here we have exactly 100 beach concessions. If they are all allowed to open every evening, we will have 100 beach bar-restaurants and the character of the beach will be changed out of all recognition. People come here looking for peace and quiet.\"However, the president of the Automobile Club of Italy (ACI), Enrico Gelpi, echoed a widespread perception when he said the new act, which came into force at the end of last month, would \"promote more attentive and responsible behaviour on the part of young people, who are particularly exposed to risk on the roads\".Among other things, the legislation requires learner drivers to take a narcotics test as a condition of being issued with a licence. It sets the permitted blood alcohol level for drivers under the age of 21 at virtually nil. But tucked away in article 54, clause\u00a02, is a sentence which says that beach concessions can put on dance parties \"together with the supply of alcoholic beverages every day of the week\".Giordano Biserni, the president of Asaps, a national road safety organisation, said: \"This is a measure that has nothing to do with road safety. On the contrary, it puts it at risk.\"Some councils said they thought they could mitigate the effects of the new legislation with existing municipal bylaws. But one of the sponsors of the amendment that inserted the controversial clause, a Northern League deputy, Gianluca Pini, whose constituency includes the low-cost holiday resorts around Rimini on the Adriatic coast, said: \"They can put a limit on the volume of the music. But they cannot restrict the parties to [for example] only two days [a\u00a0week].\"Italy has one of Europe's worst road safety records. In 2008, the last year for which comparative figures were available, there were 4,731 deaths on the roads out of a population of 58\u00a0million people, according to Tispol, the European Traffic Police Network. In the same year in the UK, which has a population of 61 million, there were 2,538 fatalities. The ACI's figures indicate that 30% of the accidents in Italy involve drivers who have held a licence for less than three years.Seaside areas, packed with discos, have some of the most dangerous roads, particularly at weekends. Last weekend, police on the coast near Rome organised spot checks of 180 drivers, and 25 were found to have been driving under the influence of drink or drugs.", "tags": ["Italy", "Alcohol", "Society", "World news", "Travel", "Italy holidays", "Beach holidays"], "title": "Italy fears a boozy invasion of its exclusive beaches"},{"date": "2010-07-08T23:05:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There will be no news in Italy today; or, at least, hardly any. That is not a prediction, but fact: none of the main newspapers are appearing because their reporters and editors are on a 24-hour strike. Today they are due to be joined by radio, TV and some internet journalists.The action is over a parliamentary bill proposing a law that Silvio Berlusconi's government claims safeguards privacy. Most of Italy's editors, judges and prosecutors say it is intended to shield politicians, and particularly the prime minister, whose career has been ridden with financial and sexual scandals.The so-called \"gagging law\" would curb the ability of police and prosecutors to record phone conversations and plant listening devices. It would also stop journalists publishing the resulting transcripts. Investigators seeking to listen in on a suspect would need permission from three judges. Regardless of circumstances, eavesdropping warrants would expire after 75 days, after which they must be renewed every three days.The National Magistrates' Association said it had very serious consequences: \"The fight against crime will be much more difficult for police and investigating magistrates, while the administration of justice will be overwhelmed by bureaucratic demands that will make the operation of the system objectively impossible.\"The bill excludes mafia and terrorism investigations. But the police unions say it would cripple inquiries into offences such as moneylending and drug-trafficking which frequently lead investigators to organised criminals and terrorists.The media would only be able to publish a summary of the findings of an investigation after it had ended. While that may be no more onerous a restriction than applies in Britain, the editor of Italy's biggest-selling daily, Corriere della Sera, Ferruccio de Bortoli, argues it is \"a bill tailor-made to shield members of the government from unwelcome investigation\".He added: \"If this were a normal country, and there were not these interested attempts to make the work of the prosecutors more difficult, we would be readier to countenance a measure to protect the privacy of individuals.\"Last year Berlusconi, aged 73, was severely embarrassed when leaks from an inquiry into corruption in the health sector revealed his private life, including parties at his Roman palazzo at which women outnumbered men by four to one. Some were prostitutes. One handed prosecutors recordings she made, allegedly of the prime minister's pillow talk, which ended up on the internet.In May Berlusconi was given a further reminder of the power of the press and the prosecution service when he reluctantly said goodbye to his industry minister, Claudio Scajola, who was reported to have been involved in a shady property deal. But recent weeks have shown the bill to be double-edged.Opposition to it has offered a cause to dissidents within Berlusconi's Freedom People (PdL) movement, dissidents led by Gianfranco Fini, the governing party's co-founder. This week, Fini, a former neo-fascist who now presents himself as a standard bearer of enlightened, Cameronian conservatism, declared there was \"never enough press freedom in a great democratic nation\".The gagging law is to enter the last stage of its parliamentary journey on July 29. There is speculation that, unless a compromise can be reached, the final vote could split the PdL. Fini does not have enough supporters to rob the prime minister of his majority, but if they began even to abstain they would condemn Berlusconi to a legislative nightmare of endless, razor-edge votes in parliament.Before the end of the month, however, the increasingly embattled prime minister faces another challenge, in securing approval for an emergency budget his government says is needed to save Italy going the way of Greece. It aims to narrow Italy's widening budget deficit by almost \u20ac25bn over the next two years, mainly through spending cuts the government has deftly passed on to local authorities.This week Berlusconi called a confidence vote to force the measure through parliament. But, as he told a television interviewer yesterday, that means: \"If we don't win, we go home.\" He would be constitutionally bound to resign if he lost.That looks unlikely. The PdL has a majority of 60 in the 630-seat lower house and one of more than 30 in the 315-seat senate.But as the likely impact of the cuts, particularly on health and welfare services, have become daily more apparent, Berlusconi's popularity has tumbled. A poll in Corriere della Sera yesterday showed his approval rating at 41% \u2014 down nine percentage points in six weeks.It found that 57% of those interviewed had a negative opinion of his ability to govern, compared with 48% at the end of May. Most worryingly of all for the government, the poll registered a seven percentage points drop in Berlusconi's popularity among his own voters.Another factor is his handling of a scandal given wide publicity. Last month he created a place in his cabinet for one Aldo Brancher. Like so many Berlusconi followers, the new minister for decentralisation and subsidiarity had once been an executive in his business empire, where he was remanded on charges of illegally funding the Socialist party, whose leader was Berlusconi's most prominent sponsor.Though found guilty at trial and appeal, Brancher was saved at the highest level of the judicial system by technicalities. Now he is back on trial, charged this time with embezzlement.Opposition politicians claimed he was given a seat in the cabinet purely so to take advantage of a law passed in March enabling ministers to block trials while in office by first insisting on their right to appear in court and then crying off, using official duties as the reason.Five days after being sworn in, Brancher duly invoked the \"law of legitimate impediment\", sparking outraged criticism that forced the prime minister into a U-turn. Last week he told his colleague that he would have to go, and on Monday Brancher announced his resignation \u2013 appropriately enough, in the court where he is being tried.The affair demonstrated there are limits to Berlusconi's power. But it highlighted another point. At the origin of Brancher's indictment was a bank scandal which began in 2005 when transcripts were published of conversations involving the then governor of the Bank of Italy.The public might have known nothing had the gagging law proposed to safeguard privacy then been in force. December 1997 Medusa Cinema case: Berlusconi sentenced to 16 months in jail for false accounting of 10bn lire. Appealed and acquitted.May 2000 Milan court overturns a bribery conviction. Found guilty on four counts and sentenced to two years and nine months in jail. However, the statute of limitations expired for three of the charges. Acquitted on the fourth on appeal.June 2001 A court of appeal upholds the acquittal on bribery charges in connection with his acquisition of the Mondadori publishing house, but ordered his one-time attorney Cesare Previti and three others to stand trial again.October 2001 Celebrates acquittal on bribery charges with a letter to the Corriere della Sera newspaper in which he hails the verdict as a defeat for \"politicised magistrates\".July 2003 Compares German MEP to a concentration camp guard.February 2009 British tax lawyer David Mills sentenced to 4\u00bd years over illegal payments for Berlusconi. Sentence quashed in February 2010.June 2009 Three women claim they were paid to attend parties at Berlusconi's official Rome residence. One releases tapes of encounters.July 2010 Berlusconi introduces a law limiting the use of wiretaps by police.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Media", "Privacy", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi's 'gag law' sparks media strike in Italy"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-09-17T19:15:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Venice film festival, the oldest and one of the most glamorous cinema awards ceremonies in the world, has been overshadowed this year by allegations of nepotism and elitism among the jury, with Silvio Berlusconi's government threatening to intervene and hand pick next year's judges.In a magazine interview published yesterday, the Italian culture minister launched a stinging attack on American film director Quentin Tarantino, who led this year's jury, calling him \"the expression of an elitist, relativist and snobbish culture.\"Sandro Bondi also slammed the judges' choice of winners, which did not include any Italian films, and said he would take part in the selection of next year's jury, \"since [the festival] is financed by the state\". The Italian government contributes \u20ac7m (\u00a35.8m) to the festival's \u20ac12m budget.Bondi told the Italian magazine Panorama that Tarantino \"pays no attention to the sentiment and the tastes of the people and of traditions, which are now considered unsophisticated and outdated. And that vision influences his critical judgment of films, including foreign films\".Tarantino, who specialises in blood-soaked pastiches of trashy B-movies, is not often on the receiving end of accusations of elitism. But it is not the first time his role in the festival has come in for criticism: this week the director was accused of nepotism after presenting several awards to friends.Sofia Coppola, Tarantino's former girlfriend, won the festival's top prize for her film Somewhere, while the Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia, a longtime friend of Tarantino, was awarded best director and best screenplay for his movie, A Sad Trumpet Ballad.The jury also gave a lifetime achievement prize to Tarantino's mentor Monte Hellman, prompting Italian daily Corriere della Sera to accuse the Pulp Fiction director of \"the most obvious conflict of interest possible\".In his interview Bondi did not spare the festival's director Marco Muller, claiming he was excluding \"talent and innovation\" from the awards.Bondi said he had avoided the festival because of the \"insupportable\" snobbery of the cinema establishment.Bondi's plan to hand pick jurors attracted derision from Italian film- makers. Luca Guadagnino, a member of this year's jury, called it \"authoritarian and ridiculous\", while Paolo Ferrari, the head of Warner Brothers in Italy, said it would go beyond the censorship exercised by Mussolini.Allowing the government to select a festival jury \"does not happen in any country in the world,\" said Riccardo Tozzi, the head of the Italian film producers' association ANICA.\"Why doesn't Bondi join the jury himself or even become a director, taking the opportunity to resign and leave the ministry in better hands,\" asked Matteo Orfini, a culture spokesman for the opposition Democratic party.Bondi, 51, who was appointed culture minister by Berlusconi in 2008, is a former communist who in 1994 made a dramatic switch to support the prime minister, going as far as dedicating poems to Berlusconi and claiming he would go to jail for him.He also wrote a 2001 booklet entitled An Italian Story, packed with photos documenting the rise of Berlusconi and his meetings with world leaders, which was mailed to Italian voters. He refused to attend this year's Cannes film festival when he found out it was showing Draquila, an Italian documentary criticising Berlusconi's handling of the relief effort after last year's devastating earthquake in Abruzzo. The film, he said, \"offends the truth and the entire population of Italy\".Shortly after his appointment as minister, Bondi admitted he did not understand modern art and merely pretended to appreciate it when visiting galleries. Yesterday Corriere della Sera wondered if he was able to name any of the films selected for this year's Venice festival.One reason for Bondi's outburst was suggested by Italian producer Domenico Procacci. \"Bondi was motivated by the fact that he wanted an Italian film to win, the goal of a lot of people,\" said Procacci, whose film Barney's Vision was in competition.But the minister denied homegrown talent had been overlooked, stating Italian directors are equally as out of touch with their audiences as Tarantino and Muller. \"There is no authenticity in the scripts, in the language and in the acting,\" he complained.Bondi said he was trying to bring culture closer to the people, \"even if, for certain left-wing intellectuals, 'the people' is something annoying and unsophisticated.\"Anyone wondering what Italian culture minister Sandro Bondi means by cinema for \"the people\" should look out for September 11, 1683, a historical epic now in preproduction which has just received \u00a45.7m in funding from Italian state TV network RAI.The film re-enacts the bloody struggle by Christian soldiers to repel Muslim troops from the gates of Vienna on the date that gives the film its title.According to legend, the Christians were led by the Capuchin friar Marco d'Aviano.\"The title is a deliberate reference to 9/11 and I want audiences to see that both sides were convinced they represented the truth,\" said director Renzo Martinelli, who says he has signed Harvey Keitel to appear as the King of Poland and hopes to cast Joseph Fiennes as d'Aviano.But the Corriere della Sera newspaper warned that the film and its title were \"anti-Islamic\" and could promote violence, adding that its state funding had been backed by Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League party.The league also lobbied for state funding for Martinelli's previous film, Barbarossa, about Italians repelling the army of the Holy Roman Empire in the 12th century, and featuring league leader Umberto Bossi in a cameo.Despite a premiere attended by government ministers, Barbarossa fared badly at the Italian box office.", "tags": ["Venice film festival 2010", "Venice film festival", "Festivals", "Film", "Italy", "Quentin Tarantino", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Venice film festival: Italy turns on Quentin Tarantino over prizes"},{"date": "2010-08-07T23:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The mayors of some of Italy's most elegant resorts have expressed outrage at a new regulation introduced by Silvio Berlusconi's government that allows beachfront premises to stage drink-and-dance parties seven days a week.Bizarrely, the measure was introduced as part of a revision of the traffic laws whose main purpose was to cut down on drink-driving. The vast majority of Italians get to the seaside by car, scooter or motorbike. Once at the beach, they will now have access to as much drink as they want from 5pm to 8pm before setting off for home or a night out.\"It's unbelievable,\" said Domenico Lombardi, the mayor of Pietrasanta in Tuscany. \"It's like saying to a youngster, 'Before you drive to the discotheque, do a bit more boozing. [Drink] twice as\u00a0much!'\u2009\"Lombardi and other officials on one of Europe's most exclusive stretches of coastline are also worried about the effect the new law could have on tourists who pay handsomely for peace and quiet. At Forte dei Marmi, a favourite with wealthy Russians, the asking price last week for a small two-bedroom flat, 100 yards from the sea, was \u20ac1.2m (\u00a31m).The town's mayor, Umberto Buratti, told the Observer: \"Ours is high-quality tourism. Here we have exactly 100 beach concessions. If they are all allowed to open every evening, we will have 100 beach bar-restaurants and the character of the beach will be changed out of all recognition. People come here looking for peace and quiet.\"However, the president of the Automobile Club of Italy (ACI), Enrico Gelpi, echoed a widespread perception when he said the new act, which came into force at the end of last month, would \"promote more attentive and responsible behaviour on the part of young people, who are particularly exposed to risk on the roads\".Among other things, the legislation requires learner drivers to take a narcotics test as a condition of being issued with a licence. It sets the permitted blood alcohol level for drivers under the age of 21 at virtually nil. But tucked away in article 54, clause\u00a02, is a sentence which says that beach concessions can put on dance parties \"together with the supply of alcoholic beverages every day of the week\".Giordano Biserni, the president of Asaps, a national road safety organisation, said: \"This is a measure that has nothing to do with road safety. On the contrary, it puts it at risk.\"Some councils said they thought they could mitigate the effects of the new legislation with existing municipal bylaws. But one of the sponsors of the amendment that inserted the controversial clause, a Northern League deputy, Gianluca Pini, whose constituency includes the low-cost holiday resorts around Rimini on the Adriatic coast, said: \"They can put a limit on the volume of the music. But they cannot restrict the parties to [for example] only two days [a\u00a0week].\"Italy has one of Europe's worst road safety records. In 2008, the last year for which comparative figures were available, there were 4,731 deaths on the roads out of a population of 58\u00a0million people, according to Tispol, the European Traffic Police Network. In the same year in the UK, which has a population of 61 million, there were 2,538 fatalities. The ACI's figures indicate that 30% of the accidents in Italy involve drivers who have held a licence for less than three years.Seaside areas, packed with discos, have some of the most dangerous roads, particularly at weekends. Last weekend, police on the coast near Rome organised spot checks of 180 drivers, and 25 were found to have been driving under the influence of drink or drugs.", "tags": ["Italy", "Alcohol", "Society", "World news", "Travel", "Italy holidays", "Beach holidays"], "title": "Italy fears a boozy invasion of its exclusive beaches"},{"date": "2010-07-08T23:05:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There will be no news in Italy today; or, at least, hardly any. That is not a prediction, but fact: none of the main newspapers are appearing because their reporters and editors are on a 24-hour strike. Today they are due to be joined by radio, TV and some internet journalists.The action is over a parliamentary bill proposing a law that Silvio Berlusconi's government claims safeguards privacy. Most of Italy's editors, judges and prosecutors say it is intended to shield politicians, and particularly the prime minister, whose career has been ridden with financial and sexual scandals.The so-called \"gagging law\" would curb the ability of police and prosecutors to record phone conversations and plant listening devices. It would also stop journalists publishing the resulting transcripts. Investigators seeking to listen in on a suspect would need permission from three judges. Regardless of circumstances, eavesdropping warrants would expire after 75 days, after which they must be renewed every three days.The National Magistrates' Association said it had very serious consequences: \"The fight against crime will be much more difficult for police and investigating magistrates, while the administration of justice will be overwhelmed by bureaucratic demands that will make the operation of the system objectively impossible.\"The bill excludes mafia and terrorism investigations. But the police unions say it would cripple inquiries into offences such as moneylending and drug-trafficking which frequently lead investigators to organised criminals and terrorists.The media would only be able to publish a summary of the findings of an investigation after it had ended. While that may be no more onerous a restriction than applies in Britain, the editor of Italy's biggest-selling daily, Corriere della Sera, Ferruccio de Bortoli, argues it is \"a bill tailor-made to shield members of the government from unwelcome investigation\".He added: \"If this were a normal country, and there were not these interested attempts to make the work of the prosecutors more difficult, we would be readier to countenance a measure to protect the privacy of individuals.\"Last year Berlusconi, aged 73, was severely embarrassed when leaks from an inquiry into corruption in the health sector revealed his private life, including parties at his Roman palazzo at which women outnumbered men by four to one. Some were prostitutes. One handed prosecutors recordings she made, allegedly of the prime minister's pillow talk, which ended up on the internet.In May Berlusconi was given a further reminder of the power of the press and the prosecution service when he reluctantly said goodbye to his industry minister, Claudio Scajola, who was reported to have been involved in a shady property deal. But recent weeks have shown the bill to be double-edged.Opposition to it has offered a cause to dissidents within Berlusconi's Freedom People (PdL) movement, dissidents led by Gianfranco Fini, the governing party's co-founder. This week, Fini, a former neo-fascist who now presents himself as a standard bearer of enlightened, Cameronian conservatism, declared there was \"never enough press freedom in a great democratic nation\".The gagging law is to enter the last stage of its parliamentary journey on July 29. There is speculation that, unless a compromise can be reached, the final vote could split the PdL. Fini does not have enough supporters to rob the prime minister of his majority, but if they began even to abstain they would condemn Berlusconi to a legislative nightmare of endless, razor-edge votes in parliament.Before the end of the month, however, the increasingly embattled prime minister faces another challenge, in securing approval for an emergency budget his government says is needed to save Italy going the way of Greece. It aims to narrow Italy's widening budget deficit by almost \u20ac25bn over the next two years, mainly through spending cuts the government has deftly passed on to local authorities.This week Berlusconi called a confidence vote to force the measure through parliament. But, as he told a television interviewer yesterday, that means: \"If we don't win, we go home.\" He would be constitutionally bound to resign if he lost.That looks unlikely. The PdL has a majority of 60 in the 630-seat lower house and one of more than 30 in the 315-seat senate.But as the likely impact of the cuts, particularly on health and welfare services, have become daily more apparent, Berlusconi's popularity has tumbled. A poll in Corriere della Sera yesterday showed his approval rating at 41% \u2014 down nine percentage points in six weeks.It found that 57% of those interviewed had a negative opinion of his ability to govern, compared with 48% at the end of May. Most worryingly of all for the government, the poll registered a seven percentage points drop in Berlusconi's popularity among his own voters.Another factor is his handling of a scandal given wide publicity. Last month he created a place in his cabinet for one Aldo Brancher. Like so many Berlusconi followers, the new minister for decentralisation and subsidiarity had once been an executive in his business empire, where he was remanded on charges of illegally funding the Socialist party, whose leader was Berlusconi's most prominent sponsor.Though found guilty at trial and appeal, Brancher was saved at the highest level of the judicial system by technicalities. Now he is back on trial, charged this time with embezzlement.Opposition politicians claimed he was given a seat in the cabinet purely so to take advantage of a law passed in March enabling ministers to block trials while in office by first insisting on their right to appear in court and then crying off, using official duties as the reason.Five days after being sworn in, Brancher duly invoked the \"law of legitimate impediment\", sparking outraged criticism that forced the prime minister into a U-turn. Last week he told his colleague that he would have to go, and on Monday Brancher announced his resignation \u2013 appropriately enough, in the court where he is being tried.The affair demonstrated there are limits to Berlusconi's power. But it highlighted another point. At the origin of Brancher's indictment was a bank scandal which began in 2005 when transcripts were published of conversations involving the then governor of the Bank of Italy.The public might have known nothing had the gagging law proposed to safeguard privacy then been in force. December 1997 Medusa Cinema case: Berlusconi sentenced to 16 months in jail for false accounting of 10bn lire. Appealed and acquitted.May 2000 Milan court overturns a bribery conviction. Found guilty on four counts and sentenced to two years and nine months in jail. However, the statute of limitations expired for three of the charges. Acquitted on the fourth on appeal.June 2001 A court of appeal upholds the acquittal on bribery charges in connection with his acquisition of the Mondadori publishing house, but ordered his one-time attorney Cesare Previti and three others to stand trial again.October 2001 Celebrates acquittal on bribery charges with a letter to the Corriere della Sera newspaper in which he hails the verdict as a defeat for \"politicised magistrates\".July 2003 Compares German MEP to a concentration camp guard.February 2009 British tax lawyer David Mills sentenced to 4\u00bd years over illegal payments for Berlusconi. Sentence quashed in February 2010.June 2009 Three women claim they were paid to attend parties at Berlusconi's official Rome residence. One releases tapes of encounters.July 2010 Berlusconi introduces a law limiting the use of wiretaps by police.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Media", "Privacy", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi's 'gag law' sparks media strike in Italy"},{"date": "2010-08-01T16:25:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Visitors are to be charged up to \u20ac50 a head to visit one of the last untouched spots in the Mediterranean \u2013 the island of Montecristo, whose wild beauty inspired Alexandre Dumas's novel of treasure and revenge.The announcement represents a first step towards the commercialisation of a nature reserve that Silvio Berlusconi's environment minister has said could raise \u20ac1m a year. In a television interview in June, Stefania Prestigiacomo said Montecristo \"could be sold for tourism and inserted into an absolute elite circuit\".The island forms part of the Tuscan archipelago national park. Like Italy's other nature reserves, it is facing a 50% budget cut as part of a package of emergency measures approved by parliament last week, aimed at staving off a Greek-style financial crisis.The minister's suggestion was vigorously opposed at the time by the park's director, Mario Tozzi. But in an apparent effort to meet the government halfway, he told a conference last week, organised by the environmental group Legambiente, that a ticket system would come into operation next year.\"If the cuts are confirmed, the Tuscan [natural] parks will lose more than \u20ac3m. So we won't even be able to guarantee the employees their salaries,\" Tozzi told the Corriere della Sera newspaper.Currently, Montecristo's only inhabitants are a lighthouse keeper, his family and a couple of forestry guards. After being made a nature reserve in 1971, the island became virtually impossible to visit.Two years ago it was announced that up to 2,000 people a year would be allowed to visit its tiny natural history museum and that another 1,000 people would be admitted on guided tours. But the difficulty of obtaining permits has meant many fewer have actually seen the white beaches, turquoise coastal waters and pink-grey granite.The latest announcement is bound to raise fears that, if access is limited only by the price of a ticket, numbers will soar. In view of the cuts, the park authorities may struggle to lay on sufficient guides.The hero of Dumas's novel, The Count of Monte Cristo, found buried gold and jewels there. But the island's real treasure is its wildlife: it is an important refuge for migrating birds and home to many rare plants and animals, including a snake, the Montecristo viper, which is unique to the island.", "tags": ["Italy", "Italy holidays", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "World news", "Travel", "Environment", "Endangered habitats"], "title": "Visitor count of Montecristo set to rise as Italy cashes in on island"},{"date": "2010-08-27T06:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Does China have to be top at absolutely everything? Until now, I thought that one field in which we could still claim supremacy was travel misery. As the most densely populated country in Europe (excluding Malta), with more people per square mile than even Holland or Belgium, Britain is celebrated for its traffic congestion. But now China has come up with a traffic jam to make even the M1 on a Friday evening seem like Silverstone \u2013 60 miles of motionless vehicles on the main highway between Beijing and the north-west of the country, with average speeds of between a third of a mile and one mile a day. Even we can't compete with that.When I think of those wretched Chinese drivers, sitting patiently in their cars day after day, paying extortionate prices for food and water along the route, I don't feel I should make too much of a fuss about it taking me 32 hours to make the journey last weekend back from Tuscany to my home in Northamptonshire. I will make a little one, though.I was booked last Friday on an easyJet flight from Pisa to Luton, where my car was awaiting me in the airport car park. I was on the plane at Pisa, ready for takeoff, when Red Cross officials appeared in the cabin to remove a flight attendant who had suddenly been taken ill. It was then announced over the tannoy that, with only two flight attendants remaining, it was against regulations to fly with more than 100 passengers on board. There were 144 of us in the plane, so the last 44 to check in were to be evicted. These, of course, included me.There were two options available to us outcasts \u2013 fly late that evening to Gatwick (not Luton) with compensation of \u00a3100, or spend a free night in a hotel and fly next day with compensation of more than double that amount. Being eager to get home, I chose the first, but somehow I missed the flight. I got to the departure lounge in good time, where a seething crowd of people were waiting for a number of different flights, but did not hear my flight called and stood by mistake in a queue for a Ryanair flight to Stansted. When I realised my mistake, it was too late. My flight had already taxied out on to the runway.Why, I asked, hadn't anybody called my name? It was not easyJet's policy to call people's names, was the answer. (That seemed to me an extremely odd policy, and one that presumably doesn't apply to passengers with luggage in the hold, but I had only a carry-on bag.)It was now about 10.30pm, more than 10-and-a-half hours since I'd set off by car that morning for the airport, and I was beginning to feel rather cross and tired. There was still a young man in the easyJet office preparing to shut up shop for the night. Although he started by saying it was all my fault for missing the Gatwick flight, so the airline had no further responsibility for me, he relented when I became hysterical and arranged for me to be taken to a hotel for the night, then put on a flight to Gatwick at 12.45pm the next day (the next flight to Luton, where my car was, being already full).The next odd thing was that the excellent hotel to which I was sent by taxi at easyJet's expense was in Lucca, 20 miles away, and not in Pisa, as one might have expected. I and the other 43 people from the Luton flight were beginning to cost easyJet a great deal of money.Next day, I and a small group of fellow passengers were bussed back from Lucca to Pisa airport where, for the third time in two days, I queued interminably for check-in. It was beginning to feel like Groundhog Day. This time I caught the flight and, courtesy of easyJet again, was taken with three others by taxi from Gatwick to Luton, where I found my car and drove home, arriving, finally, at 7pm.Now, I wouldn't want you to think I have it in for easyJet. I don't. But the airline works in a mysterious way. I have spent three days trying to extract from its press office the answers to two questions: why couldn't it find a replacement for the sick flight attendant and thus save itself thousands of pounds in hotel bills and compensation; and why, unlike other airlines, does it have a policy of not calling out the names of passengers who have checked in but have not yet boarded a departing flight? It still hasn't told me.Crazy cat peopleNow, I'm not defending the dumping of cats in wheelie bins, and nor will I attempt to explain why Mary Bale, a 45-year-old bank clerk from Coventry, did such a thing when she herself has no idea. But the fury she has aroused, including death threats, seems even madder than the original offence. Somebody even set up a Facebook site called \"Mary Bale is worse than Hitler\". The cat at least lived. Six million Jews did not.And while sympathising with the cat, Lola, about the 15-hour discomfort to which she was exposed, let us consider how other cats have been treated. In 2003, an eight-year-old cat called Tinker inherited a three-bedroom house in Harrow and a \u00a3100,000 trust fund from its doting owner; last year, in Rome, a cat called Tommasino was left property worth 10m euros by a similarly infatuated woman. I can't decide who is the craziest.", "tags": ["Travel", "easyJet", "Animal welfare"], "title": "Alexander Chancellor: My nightmare journey from Italy"},{"date": "2010-09-01T21:25:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I'll be back after a week or so on holiday. See you then!", "tags": ["Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: late-summer holiday"},{"date": "2010-09-17T19:15:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Venice film festival, the oldest and one of the most glamorous cinema awards ceremonies in the world, has been overshadowed this year by allegations of nepotism and elitism among the jury, with Silvio Berlusconi's government threatening to intervene and hand pick next year's judges.In a magazine interview published yesterday, the Italian culture minister launched a stinging attack on American film director Quentin Tarantino, who led this year's jury, calling him \"the expression of an elitist, relativist and snobbish culture.\"Sandro Bondi also slammed the judges' choice of winners, which did not include any Italian films, and said he would take part in the selection of next year's jury, \"since [the festival] is financed by the state\". The Italian government contributes \u20ac7m (\u00a35.8m) to the festival's \u20ac12m budget.Bondi told the Italian magazine Panorama that Tarantino \"pays no attention to the sentiment and the tastes of the people and of traditions, which are now considered unsophisticated and outdated. And that vision influences his critical judgment of films, including foreign films\".Tarantino, who specialises in blood-soaked pastiches of trashy B-movies, is not often on the receiving end of accusations of elitism. But it is not the first time his role in the festival has come in for criticism: this week the director was accused of nepotism after presenting several awards to friends.Sofia Coppola, Tarantino's former girlfriend, won the festival's top prize for her film Somewhere, while the Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia, a longtime friend of Tarantino, was awarded best director and best screenplay for his movie, A Sad Trumpet Ballad.The jury also gave a lifetime achievement prize to Tarantino's mentor Monte Hellman, prompting Italian daily Corriere della Sera to accuse the Pulp Fiction director of \"the most obvious conflict of interest possible\".In his interview Bondi did not spare the festival's director Marco Muller, claiming he was excluding \"talent and innovation\" from the awards.Bondi said he had avoided the festival because of the \"insupportable\" snobbery of the cinema establishment.Bondi's plan to hand pick jurors attracted derision from Italian film- makers. Luca Guadagnino, a member of this year's jury, called it \"authoritarian and ridiculous\", while Paolo Ferrari, the head of Warner Brothers in Italy, said it would go beyond the censorship exercised by Mussolini.Allowing the government to select a festival jury \"does not happen in any country in the world,\" said Riccardo Tozzi, the head of the Italian film producers' association ANICA.\"Why doesn't Bondi join the jury himself or even become a director, taking the opportunity to resign and leave the ministry in better hands,\" asked Matteo Orfini, a culture spokesman for the opposition Democratic party.Bondi, 51, who was appointed culture minister by Berlusconi in 2008, is a former communist who in 1994 made a dramatic switch to support the prime minister, going as far as dedicating poems to Berlusconi and claiming he would go to jail for him.He also wrote a 2001 booklet entitled An Italian Story, packed with photos documenting the rise of Berlusconi and his meetings with world leaders, which was mailed to Italian voters. He refused to attend this year's Cannes film festival when he found out it was showing Draquila, an Italian documentary criticising Berlusconi's handling of the relief effort after last year's devastating earthquake in Abruzzo. The film, he said, \"offends the truth and the entire population of Italy\".Shortly after his appointment as minister, Bondi admitted he did not understand modern art and merely pretended to appreciate it when visiting galleries. Yesterday Corriere della Sera wondered if he was able to name any of the films selected for this year's Venice festival.One reason for Bondi's outburst was suggested by Italian producer Domenico Procacci. \"Bondi was motivated by the fact that he wanted an Italian film to win, the goal of a lot of people,\" said Procacci, whose film Barney's Vision was in competition.But the minister denied homegrown talent had been overlooked, stating Italian directors are equally as out of touch with their audiences as Tarantino and Muller. \"There is no authenticity in the scripts, in the language and in the acting,\" he complained.Bondi said he was trying to bring culture closer to the people, \"even if, for certain left-wing intellectuals, 'the people' is something annoying and unsophisticated.\"Anyone wondering what Italian culture minister Sandro Bondi means by cinema for \"the people\" should look out for September 11, 1683, a historical epic now in preproduction which has just received \u00a45.7m in funding from Italian state TV network RAI.The film re-enacts the bloody struggle by Christian soldiers to repel Muslim troops from the gates of Vienna on the date that gives the film its title.According to legend, the Christians were led by the Capuchin friar Marco d'Aviano.\"The title is a deliberate reference to 9/11 and I want audiences to see that both sides were convinced they represented the truth,\" said director Renzo Martinelli, who says he has signed Harvey Keitel to appear as the King of Poland and hopes to cast Joseph Fiennes as d'Aviano.But the Corriere della Sera newspaper warned that the film and its title were \"anti-Islamic\" and could promote violence, adding that its state funding had been backed by Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League party.The league also lobbied for state funding for Martinelli's previous film, Barbarossa, about Italians repelling the army of the Holy Roman Empire in the 12th century, and featuring league leader Umberto Bossi in a cameo.Despite a premiere attended by government ministers, Barbarossa fared badly at the Italian box office.", "tags": ["Venice film festival 2010", "Venice film festival", "Festivals", "Film", "Italy", "Quentin Tarantino", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Venice film festival: Italy turns on Quentin Tarantino over prizes"},{"date": "2010-08-07T23:05:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The mayors of some of Italy's most elegant resorts have expressed outrage at a new regulation introduced by Silvio Berlusconi's government that allows beachfront premises to stage drink-and-dance parties seven days a week.Bizarrely, the measure was introduced as part of a revision of the traffic laws whose main purpose was to cut down on drink-driving. The vast majority of Italians get to the seaside by car, scooter or motorbike. Once at the beach, they will now have access to as much drink as they want from 5pm to 8pm before setting off for home or a night out.\"It's unbelievable,\" said Domenico Lombardi, the mayor of Pietrasanta in Tuscany. \"It's like saying to a youngster, 'Before you drive to the discotheque, do a bit more boozing. [Drink] twice as\u00a0much!'\u2009\"Lombardi and other officials on one of Europe's most exclusive stretches of coastline are also worried about the effect the new law could have on tourists who pay handsomely for peace and quiet. At Forte dei Marmi, a favourite with wealthy Russians, the asking price last week for a small two-bedroom flat, 100 yards from the sea, was \u20ac1.2m (\u00a31m).The town's mayor, Umberto Buratti, told the Observer: \"Ours is high-quality tourism. Here we have exactly 100 beach concessions. If they are all allowed to open every evening, we will have 100 beach bar-restaurants and the character of the beach will be changed out of all recognition. People come here looking for peace and quiet.\"However, the president of the Automobile Club of Italy (ACI), Enrico Gelpi, echoed a widespread perception when he said the new act, which came into force at the end of last month, would \"promote more attentive and responsible behaviour on the part of young people, who are particularly exposed to risk on the roads\".Among other things, the legislation requires learner drivers to take a narcotics test as a condition of being issued with a licence. It sets the permitted blood alcohol level for drivers under the age of 21 at virtually nil. But tucked away in article 54, clause\u00a02, is a sentence which says that beach concessions can put on dance parties \"together with the supply of alcoholic beverages every day of the week\".Giordano Biserni, the president of Asaps, a national road safety organisation, said: \"This is a measure that has nothing to do with road safety. On the contrary, it puts it at risk.\"Some councils said they thought they could mitigate the effects of the new legislation with existing municipal bylaws. But one of the sponsors of the amendment that inserted the controversial clause, a Northern League deputy, Gianluca Pini, whose constituency includes the low-cost holiday resorts around Rimini on the Adriatic coast, said: \"They can put a limit on the volume of the music. But they cannot restrict the parties to [for example] only two days [a\u00a0week].\"Italy has one of Europe's worst road safety records. In 2008, the last year for which comparative figures were available, there were 4,731 deaths on the roads out of a population of 58\u00a0million people, according to Tispol, the European Traffic Police Network. In the same year in the UK, which has a population of 61 million, there were 2,538 fatalities. The ACI's figures indicate that 30% of the accidents in Italy involve drivers who have held a licence for less than three years.Seaside areas, packed with discos, have some of the most dangerous roads, particularly at weekends. Last weekend, police on the coast near Rome organised spot checks of 180 drivers, and 25 were found to have been driving under the influence of drink or drugs.", "tags": ["Italy", "Alcohol", "Society", "World news", "Travel", "Italy holidays", "Beach holidays"], "title": "Italy fears a boozy invasion of its exclusive beaches"},{"date": "2010-07-08T23:05:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "There will be no news in Italy today; or, at least, hardly any. That is not a prediction, but fact: none of the main newspapers are appearing because their reporters and editors are on a 24-hour strike. Today they are due to be joined by radio, TV and some internet journalists.The action is over a parliamentary bill proposing a law that Silvio Berlusconi's government claims safeguards privacy. Most of Italy's editors, judges and prosecutors say it is intended to shield politicians, and particularly the prime minister, whose career has been ridden with financial and sexual scandals.The so-called \"gagging law\" would curb the ability of police and prosecutors to record phone conversations and plant listening devices. It would also stop journalists publishing the resulting transcripts. Investigators seeking to listen in on a suspect would need permission from three judges. Regardless of circumstances, eavesdropping warrants would expire after 75 days, after which they must be renewed every three days.The National Magistrates' Association said it had very serious consequences: \"The fight against crime will be much more difficult for police and investigating magistrates, while the administration of justice will be overwhelmed by bureaucratic demands that will make the operation of the system objectively impossible.\"The bill excludes mafia and terrorism investigations. But the police unions say it would cripple inquiries into offences such as moneylending and drug-trafficking which frequently lead investigators to organised criminals and terrorists.The media would only be able to publish a summary of the findings of an investigation after it had ended. While that may be no more onerous a restriction than applies in Britain, the editor of Italy's biggest-selling daily, Corriere della Sera, Ferruccio de Bortoli, argues it is \"a bill tailor-made to shield members of the government from unwelcome investigation\".He added: \"If this were a normal country, and there were not these interested attempts to make the work of the prosecutors more difficult, we would be readier to countenance a measure to protect the privacy of individuals.\"Last year Berlusconi, aged 73, was severely embarrassed when leaks from an inquiry into corruption in the health sector revealed his private life, including parties at his Roman palazzo at which women outnumbered men by four to one. Some were prostitutes. One handed prosecutors recordings she made, allegedly of the prime minister's pillow talk, which ended up on the internet.In May Berlusconi was given a further reminder of the power of the press and the prosecution service when he reluctantly said goodbye to his industry minister, Claudio Scajola, who was reported to have been involved in a shady property deal. But recent weeks have shown the bill to be double-edged.Opposition to it has offered a cause to dissidents within Berlusconi's Freedom People (PdL) movement, dissidents led by Gianfranco Fini, the governing party's co-founder. This week, Fini, a former neo-fascist who now presents himself as a standard bearer of enlightened, Cameronian conservatism, declared there was \"never enough press freedom in a great democratic nation\".The gagging law is to enter the last stage of its parliamentary journey on July 29. There is speculation that, unless a compromise can be reached, the final vote could split the PdL. Fini does not have enough supporters to rob the prime minister of his majority, but if they began even to abstain they would condemn Berlusconi to a legislative nightmare of endless, razor-edge votes in parliament.Before the end of the month, however, the increasingly embattled prime minister faces another challenge, in securing approval for an emergency budget his government says is needed to save Italy going the way of Greece. It aims to narrow Italy's widening budget deficit by almost \u20ac25bn over the next two years, mainly through spending cuts the government has deftly passed on to local authorities.This week Berlusconi called a confidence vote to force the measure through parliament. But, as he told a television interviewer yesterday, that means: \"If we don't win, we go home.\" He would be constitutionally bound to resign if he lost.That looks unlikely. The PdL has a majority of 60 in the 630-seat lower house and one of more than 30 in the 315-seat senate.But as the likely impact of the cuts, particularly on health and welfare services, have become daily more apparent, Berlusconi's popularity has tumbled. A poll in Corriere della Sera yesterday showed his approval rating at 41% \u2014 down nine percentage points in six weeks.It found that 57% of those interviewed had a negative opinion of his ability to govern, compared with 48% at the end of May. Most worryingly of all for the government, the poll registered a seven percentage points drop in Berlusconi's popularity among his own voters.Another factor is his handling of a scandal given wide publicity. Last month he created a place in his cabinet for one Aldo Brancher. Like so many Berlusconi followers, the new minister for decentralisation and subsidiarity had once been an executive in his business empire, where he was remanded on charges of illegally funding the Socialist party, whose leader was Berlusconi's most prominent sponsor.Though found guilty at trial and appeal, Brancher was saved at the highest level of the judicial system by technicalities. Now he is back on trial, charged this time with embezzlement.Opposition politicians claimed he was given a seat in the cabinet purely so to take advantage of a law passed in March enabling ministers to block trials while in office by first insisting on their right to appear in court and then crying off, using official duties as the reason.Five days after being sworn in, Brancher duly invoked the \"law of legitimate impediment\", sparking outraged criticism that forced the prime minister into a U-turn. Last week he told his colleague that he would have to go, and on Monday Brancher announced his resignation \u2013 appropriately enough, in the court where he is being tried.The affair demonstrated there are limits to Berlusconi's power. But it highlighted another point. At the origin of Brancher's indictment was a bank scandal which began in 2005 when transcripts were published of conversations involving the then governor of the Bank of Italy.The public might have known nothing had the gagging law proposed to safeguard privacy then been in force. December 1997 Medusa Cinema case: Berlusconi sentenced to 16 months in jail for false accounting of 10bn lire. Appealed and acquitted.May 2000 Milan court overturns a bribery conviction. Found guilty on four counts and sentenced to two years and nine months in jail. However, the statute of limitations expired for three of the charges. Acquitted on the fourth on appeal.June 2001 A court of appeal upholds the acquittal on bribery charges in connection with his acquisition of the Mondadori publishing house, but ordered his one-time attorney Cesare Previti and three others to stand trial again.October 2001 Celebrates acquittal on bribery charges with a letter to the Corriere della Sera newspaper in which he hails the verdict as a defeat for \"politicised magistrates\".July 2003 Compares German MEP to a concentration camp guard.February 2009 British tax lawyer David Mills sentenced to 4\u00bd years over illegal payments for Berlusconi. Sentence quashed in February 2010.June 2009 Three women claim they were paid to attend parties at Berlusconi's official Rome residence. One releases tapes of encounters.July 2010 Berlusconi introduces a law limiting the use of wiretaps by police.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Media", "Privacy", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Silvio Berlusconi's 'gag law' sparks media strike in Italy"},{"date": "2010-08-01T16:25:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Visitors are to be charged up to \u20ac50 a head to visit one of the last untouched spots in the Mediterranean \u2013 the island of Montecristo, whose wild beauty inspired Alexandre Dumas's novel of treasure and revenge.The announcement represents a first step towards the commercialisation of a nature reserve that Silvio Berlusconi's environment minister has said could raise \u20ac1m a year. In a television interview in June, Stefania Prestigiacomo said Montecristo \"could be sold for tourism and inserted into an absolute elite circuit\".The island forms part of the Tuscan archipelago national park. Like Italy's other nature reserves, it is facing a 50% budget cut as part of a package of emergency measures approved by parliament last week, aimed at staving off a Greek-style financial crisis.The minister's suggestion was vigorously opposed at the time by the park's director, Mario Tozzi. But in an apparent effort to meet the government halfway, he told a conference last week, organised by the environmental group Legambiente, that a ticket system would come into operation next year.\"If the cuts are confirmed, the Tuscan [natural] parks will lose more than \u20ac3m. So we won't even be able to guarantee the employees their salaries,\" Tozzi told the Corriere della Sera newspaper.Currently, Montecristo's only inhabitants are a lighthouse keeper, his family and a couple of forestry guards. After being made a nature reserve in 1971, the island became virtually impossible to visit.Two years ago it was announced that up to 2,000 people a year would be allowed to visit its tiny natural history museum and that another 1,000 people would be admitted on guided tours. But the difficulty of obtaining permits has meant many fewer have actually seen the white beaches, turquoise coastal waters and pink-grey granite.The latest announcement is bound to raise fears that, if access is limited only by the price of a ticket, numbers will soar. In view of the cuts, the park authorities may struggle to lay on sufficient guides.The hero of Dumas's novel, The Count of Monte Cristo, found buried gold and jewels there. But the island's real treasure is its wildlife: it is an important refuge for migrating birds and home to many rare plants and animals, including a snake, the Montecristo viper, which is unique to the island.", "tags": ["Italy", "Italy holidays", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "World news", "Travel", "Environment", "Endangered habitats"], "title": "Visitor count of Montecristo set to rise as Italy cashes in on island"},{"date": "2010-08-18T17:02:55Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Francesco Cossiga, who has died aged 82 of cardiovascular illness, was the president of Italy from 1985 to 1992. For the first five years of his presidency he behaved like his predecessors, pretending to be a father of the nation, assuming the required gravitas, or occasionally relinquishing it during one of the frequent government crises, when a past of wheeling and dealing turned out to be useful.Then, in 1990, Cossiga began to speak his mind: \"What a relief,\" he confided later, \"It was like removing pebbles from one's shoes.\" He became sarcastic, ironic, polemical, lunging against the right, then against the left, making fun of his former colleagues. He became known as \"il picconatore\" or the pickaxe-wielder. Some began to doubt his sanity.Cossiga had a serious purpose. He was convinced, and subsequent events substantiated his view, that the sclerotic Italian political system, so long sustained by the cold war, would have to change drastically after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Had Cossiga confided such forebodings to the inner circles of politics, no one would have taken any notice. He decided to go public, but, in so doing, he had to abandon the careful, coded and occasionally incomprehensible language of Italian politics and wield his pickaxe. He obviously relished the role, telling the press: \"I have given you plenty to write about!\"He justified himself (while still president) by declaring: \"In a normal country, if a president of the republic did what I do, they would put him away at once. But is this a normal country? No! It barely moves. And I, as president, do what I can to signal the scandalous nature of its abnormality.\" And he continued: \"In a country where the government governs and the opposition opposes, in a country with little organised crime, where judges judge, villains are arrested by the police, citizens pay their taxes \u2026 well, in this kind of country I would be put away. But here it's different. It's the country that is insane.\"Cossiga was a native of Sardinia, a poor and sparsely inhabited island, once known mainly for its sheep and cheese, which has produced more than its share of leading politicians: Antonio Gramsci, the Italian Marxist; Antonio Segni, twice prime minister and president of the republic; and Enrico Berlinguer, the former leader of the Italian communist party. As is often the case, local politics is in the hands of a few families (Berlinguer was Cossiga's cousin and both were related to Segni) and those who are bright and determined can move quickly to the capital to represent those left behind.Cossiga joined the DC (Christian Democracy) party aged 16, graduated in law from Sassari University at 20 and was an MP at 30. In 1966, he became a junior defence minister in a government led by Aldo Moro and in 1976 became its youngest-yet home secretary. This was a fateful appointment, as he was in charge in 1978 when Moro, his friend and protector and an architect of the \"historic compromise\" with the communists, was kidnapped by the Red Brigades and killed 55 days later. Moro begged Cossiga to save his life by negotiating with the terrorists, but Cossiga, backed by the prime minister Giulio Andreotti, refused all compromise. In retrospect, most acknowledge that this was the right course, but at the time it was controversial.The Moro affair over, Cossiga resigned, announcing he was \"politically dead\". The resurrection followed almost immediately, when he became briefly prime minister (1979-80). In July 1983, he was elected president of the senate and, finally, in 1985, at the age of 57, president of the republic, the youngest so far. He had been, hitherto, a fairly uninteresting politician, more or less permanently in government. His main claim to fame was to have been so detested by radicals that his name was sprayed on city walls as \"Kossiga\" (and with the \"ss\" as in the Nazi SS).As a result of Cossiga's outspokenness as president, other tongues loosened. Andreotti, never a friend and never one to be upstaged, revealed the existence of a secret network, Gladio, set up under the auspices of Nato to organise an armed anti-communist resistance should the country \"fall\" to the Reds. Cossiga, it turned out, had played a significant part in Gladio. This reinforced conspiracy theories suggesting that the secret services and the CIA had had a hand in the terrorism of the 1970s and that Gladio was somehow part of this.Indeed, some sources (including a former head of Italian counter-intelligence) claimed that the US secret services even had knowledge of the bomb placed in Piazza Fontana in Milan in 1969, for which the anarchist Giuseppe Pinelli (the hero of Dario Fo's play Accidental Death of an Anarchist) had been arrested and allegedly \"suicided\". Cossiga, while distancing himself from the more serious charges, accepted that he had been involved in Gladio. A subsequent communist attempt to impeach him failed.As a former president, he became senator for life. And he continued to enjoy his transmutation from colourless to colourful. He revealed that, when he was prime minister in 1980, it had been the French (and not the Americans or home terrorists) who, in hot pursuit of a Libyan MiG jet fighter, had mistakenly shot down in mid-air an Italian domestic plane, killing all its passengers.In November 2007, the Corriere della Sera reported that Cossiga had declared that everyone knew that 9/11 had been engineered by the CIA and Mossad with the \"help of the Zionist world\" to discredit the Arabs. He was, of course, being ironic \u2013 though this did not stop the statement circulating all over the internet. Asked in 2008 if he supported Silvio Berlusconi's tough line on student protest, he replied that the Italian state, being weak, should do what he did in the 1960s: infiltrate the movement, encourage them to burn shops and cars, and then, with popular support, use brute force, and send the radicals to hospital, along with their professors. It had become difficult to take him seriously. Yet he had written a book about Sir Thomas More, so perhaps he did take himself seriously.In 1960, he had married Giuseppa Sigurani, from whom he was divorced in 1998. They had two children, Anna Maria, now a writer, and Giuseppe, currently junior minister for defence in Berlusconi's government (his father's first job). \u2022 Francesco Cossiga, politician, born 26 July 1928; died 17 August 2010", "tags": ["Italy", "Politics past", "Politics", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Francesco Cossiga obituary"},{"date": "2010-12-14T19:00:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The tragedy of the no-confidence vote in Silvio Berlusconi's government today was that, whatever the result, Berlusconi couldn't lose. The vote, it's true, was on a knife-edge, at least in the lower house. Long overdue and heavily pregnant deputies were wheeled in, in the hope that the government would be voted out. But to no avail: confounding all expectations, the great escapist escaped yet again.The senate expressed its confidence, by 162 to 135 with 11 abstentions; the chamber of deputies wasn't quite so confident (314 against 311), but Berlusconi was in the clear. Those naive commentators who, in the past week, had been sharpening their pencils to write Berlusconi's political obituary will have to think again. The career of one of Europe's most bizarre and sinister clowns is far\u00a0from over.And even if he had lost, it wouldn't have mattered much. Berlusconi is too shrewd to base his survival on the ever-shifting sands of Italian politics and on the country's whimsical, flip-flopping MPs. Over the past two decades he's ensured that parliament is no longer the place where a prime minister is judged. It's not there that real debate takes place or that real decisions are made. The true theatre of Italian politics is the television studio \u2013 and Berlusconi, of course, owns most of the studios. Even if he had lost today he would simply have called an election, and the chances are that \u2013 like 1994 and 2001 and 2008 \u2013 he would have won by a landslide. He owns, after all, the means of seduction.The one certain loser, sadly, is Italy. The cost of Berlusconi's survival is complete political standstill. The date for today's vote was set almost a month ago, since when parliament has been paralysed: no decisions, no leadership. Berlusconi will now have a wafer-thin majority and, given the iffy loyalty of Italian MPs, no guarantee that any legislation will pass.Rather than the endgame, this is a stalemate. The country appears completely unable to liberate itself of its very own Citizen Kane. Part of the problem is that the man who brought the whole crisis to a head, Gianfranco Fini, has a tragic lack of cojones. Having stormed out of Berlusconi's government, Fini then decided that his rebels should abstain rather than vote against it. It's a bit like a boxer picking a fight then refusing to throw a punch; like a footballer diving to win a penalty then declining to take it. If Berlusconi is famously red-blooded and full of chutzpah, Fini appears lily-livered. Three of his rebels even voted with Berlusconi today. Some rebellion.The leftwing opposition, meanwhile, is weak and divided. There's always talk of a leadership coup in the air and the party veers between principles and opportunism, between old-fashioned Euro-communism and an uninspiring, centrist confusion. Fini's fickle followers could, in theory, form an alliance with the leftwing opposition, but it's not on the cards: an alliance between former fascists and former communists would require, even by Italian standards, extraordinary ideological flexibility.In the past the way out would have been the appointment of a \"technical government\", a coalition of politically neutral technocrats to guide the country out of the woods. But that solution hasn't been used since Berlusconi erupted on the political scene in the early 1990s, and there's no question of him, and Umberto Bossi, the leader of the Northern League, stepping aside for some humble servant of the state. They intend to stay exactly where they are.As Berlusconi said again yesterday: \"I'll absolutely never resign.\" He will never, it's clear, fall on his sword. He'll never do the honourable thing. He'll only ever do what's in his own, rather than his country's, interests.And so Italians are saddled with a man who embarrasses them every time he steps on to the world stage; a man who is so lewd he makes Benny Hill look chaste; a man who is only not in court because he's in power.The main reason for the riots in Rome today was the acute frustration at the impossibility of removing him from office. But the real tragedy isn't what the man has done, but what he hasn't done. Even Berlusconi's most fervent admirers are at a loss when asked to name even half a dozen policies since 1994 of which they're truly proud. For all his landslides and years in power, he's achieved nothing. His iconic promise in\u00a0every election has been to build a bridge over\u00a0the Straits of Messina linking Sicily\u00a0to the mainland. See if you can spot it next time you're there. He might as well\u00a0have promised the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Ironically, many suspect that he only\u00a0survived today's no confidence vote by promising waverers precisely that: their very own pot of gold.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "A vote to mock Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2010-12-14T19:00:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The tragedy of the no-confidence vote in Silvio Berlusconi's government today was that, whatever the result, Berlusconi couldn't lose. The vote, it's true, was on a knife-edge, at least in the lower house. Long overdue and heavily pregnant deputies were wheeled in, in the hope that the government would be voted out. But to no avail: confounding all expectations, the great escapist escaped yet again.The senate expressed its confidence, by 162 to 135 with 11 abstentions; the chamber of deputies wasn't quite so confident (314 against 311), but Berlusconi was in the clear. Those naive commentators who, in the past week, had been sharpening their pencils to write Berlusconi's political obituary will have to think again. The career of one of Europe's most bizarre and sinister clowns is far\u00a0from over.And even if he had lost, it wouldn't have mattered much. Berlusconi is too shrewd to base his survival on the ever-shifting sands of Italian politics and on the country's whimsical, flip-flopping MPs. Over the past two decades he's ensured that parliament is no longer the place where a prime minister is judged. It's not there that real debate takes place or that real decisions are made. The true theatre of Italian politics is the television studio \u2013 and Berlusconi, of course, owns most of the studios. Even if he had lost today he would simply have called an election, and the chances are that \u2013 like 1994 and 2001 and 2008 \u2013 he would have won by a landslide. He owns, after all, the means of seduction.The one certain loser, sadly, is Italy. The cost of Berlusconi's survival is complete political standstill. The date for today's vote was set almost a month ago, since when parliament has been paralysed: no decisions, no leadership. Berlusconi will now have a wafer-thin majority and, given the iffy loyalty of Italian MPs, no guarantee that any legislation will pass.Rather than the endgame, this is a stalemate. The country appears completely unable to liberate itself of its very own Citizen Kane. Part of the problem is that the man who brought the whole crisis to a head, Gianfranco Fini, has a tragic lack of cojones. Having stormed out of Berlusconi's government, Fini then decided that his rebels should abstain rather than vote against it. It's a bit like a boxer picking a fight then refusing to throw a punch; like a footballer diving to win a penalty then declining to take it. If Berlusconi is famously red-blooded and full of chutzpah, Fini appears lily-livered. Three of his rebels even voted with Berlusconi today. Some rebellion.The leftwing opposition, meanwhile, is weak and divided. There's always talk of a leadership coup in the air and the party veers between principles and opportunism, between old-fashioned Euro-communism and an uninspiring, centrist confusion. Fini's fickle followers could, in theory, form an alliance with the leftwing opposition, but it's not on the cards: an alliance between former fascists and former communists would require, even by Italian standards, extraordinary ideological flexibility.In the past the way out would have been the appointment of a \"technical government\", a coalition of politically neutral technocrats to guide the country out of the woods. But that solution hasn't been used since Berlusconi erupted on the political scene in the early 1990s, and there's no question of him, and Umberto Bossi, the leader of the Northern League, stepping aside for some humble servant of the state. They intend to stay exactly where they are.As Berlusconi said again yesterday: \"I'll absolutely never resign.\" He will never, it's clear, fall on his sword. He'll never do the honourable thing. He'll only ever do what's in his own, rather than his country's, interests.And so Italians are saddled with a man who embarrasses them every time he steps on to the world stage; a man who is so lewd he makes Benny Hill look chaste; a man who is only not in court because he's in power.The main reason for the riots in Rome today was the acute frustration at the impossibility of removing him from office. But the real tragedy isn't what the man has done, but what he hasn't done. Even Berlusconi's most fervent admirers are at a loss when asked to name even half a dozen policies since 1994 of which they're truly proud. For all his landslides and years in power, he's achieved nothing. His iconic promise in\u00a0every election has been to build a bridge over\u00a0the Straits of Messina linking Sicily\u00a0to the mainland. See if you can spot it next time you're there. He might as well\u00a0have promised the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Ironically, many suspect that he only\u00a0survived today's no confidence vote by promising waverers precisely that: their very own pot of gold.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "A vote to mock Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2010-10-16T10:36:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Forget about Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? For an honest portrayal of a disintegrating relationship, Journey to Italy is the grownup choice. Rossellini paired his wife, Ingrid Bergman, with George Sanders as a childless couple, Katherine and Alex, stuffy Brits abroad on the Amalfi coast where they're selling a recently inherited house.Confined to their car, alone for the first time in years, they're strangers, and the awful realisation dawns on them that their marriage is empty. \"What noisy people,\" Alex says at the start, and the couple's pasty Englishness is continually overwhelmed. Visiting excavations at Pompeii, they watch as a man and a\u00a0woman are uncovered from volcanic dust, frozen in death in an embrace. The\u00a0sight terrifies Katherine: \"Life is so short.\"Extraordinary, potent moments like these, ravishingly shot, punctuate awkwardness and uncomfortable silences. This is not the most conventional of romances, for sure, but one that understands like no other the complex nature of human relationships. Journey to Italy flopped at the box office, but the young writer-film-makers at the Cahiers du Cin\u00e9ma instantly declared it a modern masterpiece. \"If there is a modern cinema this is it,\" enthused Jacques Rivette.", "tags": ["Romance", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: No 19"},{"date": "2010-12-14T19:00:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The tragedy of the no-confidence vote in Silvio Berlusconi's government today was that, whatever the result, Berlusconi couldn't lose. The vote, it's true, was on a knife-edge, at least in the lower house. Long overdue and heavily pregnant deputies were wheeled in, in the hope that the government would be voted out. But to no avail: confounding all expectations, the great escapist escaped yet again.The senate expressed its confidence, by 162 to 135 with 11 abstentions; the chamber of deputies wasn't quite so confident (314 against 311), but Berlusconi was in the clear. Those naive commentators who, in the past week, had been sharpening their pencils to write Berlusconi's political obituary will have to think again. The career of one of Europe's most bizarre and sinister clowns is far\u00a0from over.And even if he had lost, it wouldn't have mattered much. Berlusconi is too shrewd to base his survival on the ever-shifting sands of Italian politics and on the country's whimsical, flip-flopping MPs. Over the past two decades he's ensured that parliament is no longer the place where a prime minister is judged. It's not there that real debate takes place or that real decisions are made. The true theatre of Italian politics is the television studio \u2013 and Berlusconi, of course, owns most of the studios. Even if he had lost today he would simply have called an election, and the chances are that \u2013 like 1994 and 2001 and 2008 \u2013 he would have won by a landslide. He owns, after all, the means of seduction.The one certain loser, sadly, is Italy. The cost of Berlusconi's survival is complete political standstill. The date for today's vote was set almost a month ago, since when parliament has been paralysed: no decisions, no leadership. Berlusconi will now have a wafer-thin majority and, given the iffy loyalty of Italian MPs, no guarantee that any legislation will pass.Rather than the endgame, this is a stalemate. The country appears completely unable to liberate itself of its very own Citizen Kane. Part of the problem is that the man who brought the whole crisis to a head, Gianfranco Fini, has a tragic lack of cojones. Having stormed out of Berlusconi's government, Fini then decided that his rebels should abstain rather than vote against it. It's a bit like a boxer picking a fight then refusing to throw a punch; like a footballer diving to win a penalty then declining to take it. If Berlusconi is famously red-blooded and full of chutzpah, Fini appears lily-livered. Three of his rebels even voted with Berlusconi today. Some rebellion.The leftwing opposition, meanwhile, is weak and divided. There's always talk of a leadership coup in the air and the party veers between principles and opportunism, between old-fashioned Euro-communism and an uninspiring, centrist confusion. Fini's fickle followers could, in theory, form an alliance with the leftwing opposition, but it's not on the cards: an alliance between former fascists and former communists would require, even by Italian standards, extraordinary ideological flexibility.In the past the way out would have been the appointment of a \"technical government\", a coalition of politically neutral technocrats to guide the country out of the woods. But that solution hasn't been used since Berlusconi erupted on the political scene in the early 1990s, and there's no question of him, and Umberto Bossi, the leader of the Northern League, stepping aside for some humble servant of the state. They intend to stay exactly where they are.As Berlusconi said again yesterday: \"I'll absolutely never resign.\" He will never, it's clear, fall on his sword. He'll never do the honourable thing. He'll only ever do what's in his own, rather than his country's, interests.And so Italians are saddled with a man who embarrasses them every time he steps on to the world stage; a man who is so lewd he makes Benny Hill look chaste; a man who is only not in court because he's in power.The main reason for the riots in Rome today was the acute frustration at the impossibility of removing him from office. But the real tragedy isn't what the man has done, but what he hasn't done. Even Berlusconi's most fervent admirers are at a loss when asked to name even half a dozen policies since 1994 of which they're truly proud. For all his landslides and years in power, he's achieved nothing. His iconic promise in\u00a0every election has been to build a bridge over\u00a0the Straits of Messina linking Sicily\u00a0to the mainland. See if you can spot it next time you're there. He might as well\u00a0have promised the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Ironically, many suspect that he only\u00a0survived today's no confidence vote by promising waverers precisely that: their very own pot of gold.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "A vote to mock Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2010-10-16T10:36:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Forget about Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? For an honest portrayal of a disintegrating relationship, Journey to Italy is the grownup choice. Rossellini paired his wife, Ingrid Bergman, with George Sanders as a childless couple, Katherine and Alex, stuffy Brits abroad on the Amalfi coast where they're selling a recently inherited house.Confined to their car, alone for the first time in years, they're strangers, and the awful realisation dawns on them that their marriage is empty. \"What noisy people,\" Alex says at the start, and the couple's pasty Englishness is continually overwhelmed. Visiting excavations at Pompeii, they watch as a man and a\u00a0woman are uncovered from volcanic dust, frozen in death in an embrace. The\u00a0sight terrifies Katherine: \"Life is so short.\"Extraordinary, potent moments like these, ravishingly shot, punctuate awkwardness and uncomfortable silences. This is not the most conventional of romances, for sure, but one that understands like no other the complex nature of human relationships. Journey to Italy flopped at the box office, but the young writer-film-makers at the Cahiers du Cin\u00e9ma instantly declared it a modern masterpiece. \"If there is a modern cinema this is it,\" enthused Jacques Rivette.", "tags": ["Romance", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: No 19"},{"date": "2010-10-12T17:48:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Environmental organisations today expressed outrage over a plan by local authorities in the Abruzzo region of central Italy to combat prostitution with deforestation.For decades, local law enforcement and politicians have struggled to police the Bonifica del Tronto road, a haven for the sex trade that runs inland for more than 10 miles from the Adriatic coast alongside the river Tronto. Over the years, cameras have been installed, raids mounted, 24-hour patrols implemented and the mayors of towns near the road have signed bylaws imposing fines on prostitutes' clients. All to no avail.At the end of last month, the regional government's public works chief, Angelo Di Paolo, announced that the time had come for drastic measures. He said he had agreed with provincial and municipal representatives to cut down all the vegetation \"around and along the banks [of the river Tronto]\", in which the prostitutes ply their trade.A local authority \"ought to contribute to the solution of problems relating to law and order,\" said Di Paolo. But in a statement three environmental groups, including the WWF, said that the scheme would destroy 28 hectares (69 acres) of woodland vital to local ecosystems, saying the only crime of the thousands of trees on the local authorities' hit list had been to \"offer with their fronds shelter and intimacy to sex slaves\".The authorities, they added, had \"not even taken into account mitigating circumstances\". \"Among these are having absorbed thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide and given man precious oxygen,\" they said. They also prevented fertiliser and pesticides from reaching the river.A census this month by an NGO found almost 600 prostitutes at work on the Bonifica del Tronto. Most were Nigerians, but they included Romanians, Brazilians, Albanians and Chinese.Di Paolo is a man known for resolute responses. Some years ago, when he was mayor of the town of Canistro, he won national fame for shooting at a bank robber whom he then chased and caught.", "tags": ["Italy", "Prostitution", "Society", "World news", "Environment", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests"], "title": "Italy to combat prostitution by cutting trees"},{"date": "2010-12-14T19:00:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The tragedy of the no-confidence vote in Silvio Berlusconi's government today was that, whatever the result, Berlusconi couldn't lose. The vote, it's true, was on a knife-edge, at least in the lower house. Long overdue and heavily pregnant deputies were wheeled in, in the hope that the government would be voted out. But to no avail: confounding all expectations, the great escapist escaped yet again.The senate expressed its confidence, by 162 to 135 with 11 abstentions; the chamber of deputies wasn't quite so confident (314 against 311), but Berlusconi was in the clear. Those naive commentators who, in the past week, had been sharpening their pencils to write Berlusconi's political obituary will have to think again. The career of one of Europe's most bizarre and sinister clowns is far\u00a0from over.And even if he had lost, it wouldn't have mattered much. Berlusconi is too shrewd to base his survival on the ever-shifting sands of Italian politics and on the country's whimsical, flip-flopping MPs. Over the past two decades he's ensured that parliament is no longer the place where a prime minister is judged. It's not there that real debate takes place or that real decisions are made. The true theatre of Italian politics is the television studio \u2013 and Berlusconi, of course, owns most of the studios. Even if he had lost today he would simply have called an election, and the chances are that \u2013 like 1994 and 2001 and 2008 \u2013 he would have won by a landslide. He owns, after all, the means of seduction.The one certain loser, sadly, is Italy. The cost of Berlusconi's survival is complete political standstill. The date for today's vote was set almost a month ago, since when parliament has been paralysed: no decisions, no leadership. Berlusconi will now have a wafer-thin majority and, given the iffy loyalty of Italian MPs, no guarantee that any legislation will pass.Rather than the endgame, this is a stalemate. The country appears completely unable to liberate itself of its very own Citizen Kane. Part of the problem is that the man who brought the whole crisis to a head, Gianfranco Fini, has a tragic lack of cojones. Having stormed out of Berlusconi's government, Fini then decided that his rebels should abstain rather than vote against it. It's a bit like a boxer picking a fight then refusing to throw a punch; like a footballer diving to win a penalty then declining to take it. If Berlusconi is famously red-blooded and full of chutzpah, Fini appears lily-livered. Three of his rebels even voted with Berlusconi today. Some rebellion.The leftwing opposition, meanwhile, is weak and divided. There's always talk of a leadership coup in the air and the party veers between principles and opportunism, between old-fashioned Euro-communism and an uninspiring, centrist confusion. Fini's fickle followers could, in theory, form an alliance with the leftwing opposition, but it's not on the cards: an alliance between former fascists and former communists would require, even by Italian standards, extraordinary ideological flexibility.In the past the way out would have been the appointment of a \"technical government\", a coalition of politically neutral technocrats to guide the country out of the woods. But that solution hasn't been used since Berlusconi erupted on the political scene in the early 1990s, and there's no question of him, and Umberto Bossi, the leader of the Northern League, stepping aside for some humble servant of the state. They intend to stay exactly where they are.As Berlusconi said again yesterday: \"I'll absolutely never resign.\" He will never, it's clear, fall on his sword. He'll never do the honourable thing. He'll only ever do what's in his own, rather than his country's, interests.And so Italians are saddled with a man who embarrasses them every time he steps on to the world stage; a man who is so lewd he makes Benny Hill look chaste; a man who is only not in court because he's in power.The main reason for the riots in Rome today was the acute frustration at the impossibility of removing him from office. But the real tragedy isn't what the man has done, but what he hasn't done. Even Berlusconi's most fervent admirers are at a loss when asked to name even half a dozen policies since 1994 of which they're truly proud. For all his landslides and years in power, he's achieved nothing. His iconic promise in\u00a0every election has been to build a bridge over\u00a0the Straits of Messina linking Sicily\u00a0to the mainland. See if you can spot it next time you're there. He might as well\u00a0have promised the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Ironically, many suspect that he only\u00a0survived today's no confidence vote by promising waverers precisely that: their very own pot of gold.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "A vote to mock Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2010-10-16T10:36:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Forget about Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? For an honest portrayal of a disintegrating relationship, Journey to Italy is the grownup choice. Rossellini paired his wife, Ingrid Bergman, with George Sanders as a childless couple, Katherine and Alex, stuffy Brits abroad on the Amalfi coast where they're selling a recently inherited house.Confined to their car, alone for the first time in years, they're strangers, and the awful realisation dawns on them that their marriage is empty. \"What noisy people,\" Alex says at the start, and the couple's pasty Englishness is continually overwhelmed. Visiting excavations at Pompeii, they watch as a man and a\u00a0woman are uncovered from volcanic dust, frozen in death in an embrace. The\u00a0sight terrifies Katherine: \"Life is so short.\"Extraordinary, potent moments like these, ravishingly shot, punctuate awkwardness and uncomfortable silences. This is not the most conventional of romances, for sure, but one that understands like no other the complex nature of human relationships. Journey to Italy flopped at the box office, but the young writer-film-makers at the Cahiers du Cin\u00e9ma instantly declared it a modern masterpiece. \"If there is a modern cinema this is it,\" enthused Jacques Rivette.", "tags": ["Romance", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: No 19"},{"date": "2010-10-12T17:48:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Environmental organisations today expressed outrage over a plan by local authorities in the Abruzzo region of central Italy to combat prostitution with deforestation.For decades, local law enforcement and politicians have struggled to police the Bonifica del Tronto road, a haven for the sex trade that runs inland for more than 10 miles from the Adriatic coast alongside the river Tronto. Over the years, cameras have been installed, raids mounted, 24-hour patrols implemented and the mayors of towns near the road have signed bylaws imposing fines on prostitutes' clients. All to no avail.At the end of last month, the regional government's public works chief, Angelo Di Paolo, announced that the time had come for drastic measures. He said he had agreed with provincial and municipal representatives to cut down all the vegetation \"around and along the banks [of the river Tronto]\", in which the prostitutes ply their trade.A local authority \"ought to contribute to the solution of problems relating to law and order,\" said Di Paolo. But in a statement three environmental groups, including the WWF, said that the scheme would destroy 28 hectares (69 acres) of woodland vital to local ecosystems, saying the only crime of the thousands of trees on the local authorities' hit list had been to \"offer with their fronds shelter and intimacy to sex slaves\".The authorities, they added, had \"not even taken into account mitigating circumstances\". \"Among these are having absorbed thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide and given man precious oxygen,\" they said. They also prevented fertiliser and pesticides from reaching the river.A census this month by an NGO found almost 600 prostitutes at work on the Bonifica del Tronto. Most were Nigerians, but they included Romanians, Brazilians, Albanians and Chinese.Di Paolo is a man known for resolute responses. Some years ago, when he was mayor of the town of Canistro, he won national fame for shooting at a bank robber whom he then chased and caught.", "tags": ["Italy", "Prostitution", "Society", "World news", "Environment", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests"], "title": "Italy to combat prostitution by cutting trees"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-12-14T19:00:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The tragedy of the no-confidence vote in Silvio Berlusconi's government today was that, whatever the result, Berlusconi couldn't lose. The vote, it's true, was on a knife-edge, at least in the lower house. Long overdue and heavily pregnant deputies were wheeled in, in the hope that the government would be voted out. But to no avail: confounding all expectations, the great escapist escaped yet again.The senate expressed its confidence, by 162 to 135 with 11 abstentions; the chamber of deputies wasn't quite so confident (314 against 311), but Berlusconi was in the clear. Those naive commentators who, in the past week, had been sharpening their pencils to write Berlusconi's political obituary will have to think again. The career of one of Europe's most bizarre and sinister clowns is far\u00a0from over.And even if he had lost, it wouldn't have mattered much. Berlusconi is too shrewd to base his survival on the ever-shifting sands of Italian politics and on the country's whimsical, flip-flopping MPs. Over the past two decades he's ensured that parliament is no longer the place where a prime minister is judged. It's not there that real debate takes place or that real decisions are made. The true theatre of Italian politics is the television studio \u2013 and Berlusconi, of course, owns most of the studios. Even if he had lost today he would simply have called an election, and the chances are that \u2013 like 1994 and 2001 and 2008 \u2013 he would have won by a landslide. He owns, after all, the means of seduction.The one certain loser, sadly, is Italy. The cost of Berlusconi's survival is complete political standstill. The date for today's vote was set almost a month ago, since when parliament has been paralysed: no decisions, no leadership. Berlusconi will now have a wafer-thin majority and, given the iffy loyalty of Italian MPs, no guarantee that any legislation will pass.Rather than the endgame, this is a stalemate. The country appears completely unable to liberate itself of its very own Citizen Kane. Part of the problem is that the man who brought the whole crisis to a head, Gianfranco Fini, has a tragic lack of cojones. Having stormed out of Berlusconi's government, Fini then decided that his rebels should abstain rather than vote against it. It's a bit like a boxer picking a fight then refusing to throw a punch; like a footballer diving to win a penalty then declining to take it. If Berlusconi is famously red-blooded and full of chutzpah, Fini appears lily-livered. Three of his rebels even voted with Berlusconi today. Some rebellion.The leftwing opposition, meanwhile, is weak and divided. There's always talk of a leadership coup in the air and the party veers between principles and opportunism, between old-fashioned Euro-communism and an uninspiring, centrist confusion. Fini's fickle followers could, in theory, form an alliance with the leftwing opposition, but it's not on the cards: an alliance between former fascists and former communists would require, even by Italian standards, extraordinary ideological flexibility.In the past the way out would have been the appointment of a \"technical government\", a coalition of politically neutral technocrats to guide the country out of the woods. But that solution hasn't been used since Berlusconi erupted on the political scene in the early 1990s, and there's no question of him, and Umberto Bossi, the leader of the Northern League, stepping aside for some humble servant of the state. They intend to stay exactly where they are.As Berlusconi said again yesterday: \"I'll absolutely never resign.\" He will never, it's clear, fall on his sword. He'll never do the honourable thing. He'll only ever do what's in his own, rather than his country's, interests.And so Italians are saddled with a man who embarrasses them every time he steps on to the world stage; a man who is so lewd he makes Benny Hill look chaste; a man who is only not in court because he's in power.The main reason for the riots in Rome today was the acute frustration at the impossibility of removing him from office. But the real tragedy isn't what the man has done, but what he hasn't done. Even Berlusconi's most fervent admirers are at a loss when asked to name even half a dozen policies since 1994 of which they're truly proud. For all his landslides and years in power, he's achieved nothing. His iconic promise in\u00a0every election has been to build a bridge over\u00a0the Straits of Messina linking Sicily\u00a0to the mainland. See if you can spot it next time you're there. He might as well\u00a0have promised the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.Ironically, many suspect that he only\u00a0survived today's no confidence vote by promising waverers precisely that: their very own pot of gold.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "A vote to mock Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2010-10-16T10:36:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Forget about Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? For an honest portrayal of a disintegrating relationship, Journey to Italy is the grownup choice. Rossellini paired his wife, Ingrid Bergman, with George Sanders as a childless couple, Katherine and Alex, stuffy Brits abroad on the Amalfi coast where they're selling a recently inherited house.Confined to their car, alone for the first time in years, they're strangers, and the awful realisation dawns on them that their marriage is empty. \"What noisy people,\" Alex says at the start, and the couple's pasty Englishness is continually overwhelmed. Visiting excavations at Pompeii, they watch as a man and a\u00a0woman are uncovered from volcanic dust, frozen in death in an embrace. The\u00a0sight terrifies Katherine: \"Life is so short.\"Extraordinary, potent moments like these, ravishingly shot, punctuate awkwardness and uncomfortable silences. This is not the most conventional of romances, for sure, but one that understands like no other the complex nature of human relationships. Journey to Italy flopped at the box office, but the young writer-film-makers at the Cahiers du Cin\u00e9ma instantly declared it a modern masterpiece. \"If there is a modern cinema this is it,\" enthused Jacques Rivette.", "tags": ["Romance", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Journey to Italy: No 19"},{"date": "2010-10-12T17:48:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Environmental organisations today expressed outrage over a plan by local authorities in the Abruzzo region of central Italy to combat prostitution with deforestation.For decades, local law enforcement and politicians have struggled to police the Bonifica del Tronto road, a haven for the sex trade that runs inland for more than 10 miles from the Adriatic coast alongside the river Tronto. Over the years, cameras have been installed, raids mounted, 24-hour patrols implemented and the mayors of towns near the road have signed bylaws imposing fines on prostitutes' clients. All to no avail.At the end of last month, the regional government's public works chief, Angelo Di Paolo, announced that the time had come for drastic measures. He said he had agreed with provincial and municipal representatives to cut down all the vegetation \"around and along the banks [of the river Tronto]\", in which the prostitutes ply their trade.A local authority \"ought to contribute to the solution of problems relating to law and order,\" said Di Paolo. But in a statement three environmental groups, including the WWF, said that the scheme would destroy 28 hectares (69 acres) of woodland vital to local ecosystems, saying the only crime of the thousands of trees on the local authorities' hit list had been to \"offer with their fronds shelter and intimacy to sex slaves\".The authorities, they added, had \"not even taken into account mitigating circumstances\". \"Among these are having absorbed thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide and given man precious oxygen,\" they said. They also prevented fertiliser and pesticides from reaching the river.A census this month by an NGO found almost 600 prostitutes at work on the Bonifica del Tronto. Most were Nigerians, but they included Romanians, Brazilians, Albanians and Chinese.Di Paolo is a man known for resolute responses. Some years ago, when he was mayor of the town of Canistro, he won national fame for shooting at a bank robber whom he then chased and caught.", "tags": ["Italy", "Prostitution", "Society", "World news", "Environment", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests"], "title": "Italy to combat prostitution by cutting trees"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-11-16T17:08:16Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A week-long press freedom mission to Italy by the International Press Institute (IPI) uncovered \"pockets of serious concern\" about the state of the country's media.The major worry, unsurprisingly, centred on the media holdings of the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. These have, said IPI's report, \"negative effects on the diversity and plurality of Italy's television news spectrum.\"It referred to Berlusconi's ownership of Italy's most powerful private broadcasting company, \"in what by many democratic standards would constitute a clear conflict of interest, along with his willingness and ability to politically influence Italy's public broadcaster, RAI.According to a news report by IPI's press freedom manager Anthony Mills who led the mission, \"the politicisation of public broadcaster RAI is worrisome\". Though it pre-dates Berlusconi's rise to power, \"it appears to have intensified under his leadership.\"Television concentration is significant because the vast majority of Italy's citizens use TV as a primary source of information.By contrast, IPI found that \"the country's print media enjoys a far greater breadth of political opinions and freedom, although leading national newspapers were backed by powerful industrial groups and advertisers whose priorities did not always coincide with those of news editors.\"The institute was concerned to hear of the difficulties faced by Italian journalists in covering organised crime, particularly in regions of the country in which crime syndicates exert significant influence. But there was relief at the apparent stalling of the Italy's so-called \"wiretap bill\". Portrayed by the government as a measure to protect privacy, IPI considers it \"questionable from a journalistically ethical perspective.\"Mills noted: \"Portions of the bill... including restrictions on the legitimate reporting of investigations and potential fines for publishers of up to almost \u20ac500,000 had sparked strong concerns about press freedom, particularly following a string of political and corruption scandals in Italy.\"The IPI mission also raised its eyebrows at the official accreditation procedures for journalists. If they wish to be considered bona fide journalists they must join the National Order of Journalists, which involves sitting an exam.This is presided over not only by senior journalists but three magistrates. IPI thinks the involvement of state judicial authorities is \"troubling.\"The mission completed its work on Friday. The members of its delegation included Simon Li, the IPI vice-chairman and former assistant managing editor at the Los Angeles Times; Alexandra Foederl-Schmid, an IPI board member and editor-in-chief of Austria's Der Standard; and Barbara Trionfi, IPI's press freedom adviser. They met a broad array of media stakeholders, politicians and government representatives. IPI will now produce a report laying out in detail its findings.Source: IPI", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Mission finds serious press freedom concerns in Berlusconi's Italy"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-02-14T20:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Age: Varied.Appearance: Angry and in a piazza near you.Really? How so? Hundreds of thousands of them rallied in Rome, many more in other Italian towns and even elsewhere in Europe, including London and Zurich, on Sunday to protest against Berlusconi's behaviour and call for his resignation.That's notizia magnifica! But you gotta ask: what took them so long? You mean, elsewhere the female electorate might have taken umbrage after the first, say, half a dozen allegations that the leader of their country consorted with escorts and prostitutes, instead of waiting until he was threatened with indictment on charges of underage sex and abuse of his position to cover up his part in the buying and selling of childflesh?Yes. Or even the electorate generally. Or even at their president's ownership of a television network showing wall-to-wall veline, long before the sex scandals came to light. Wall-to-wall veline? I think I've got that in my kitchen. Is green linoleum sexist? I didn't know.Veline are the scantily-clad young models who carve out careers holding up scorecards and posing on Berlusconi's quiz shows. And sports shows. And news shows. Any kind of show, really. Oh, yes, of course, sorry, gotcha. Well, Italian women's tolerance for sexism and misogyny is relatively high, but it turns out that even they have their limits. And the international attention garnered by tales of bunga-bunga parties and underage prostitution . . .On top of the usual accusations of bribes and corruption, along with no-confidence votes miraculously survived . . . You may take those as read . . . has succeeded in pushing them to the edge and into the piazzas in protest.Any good placards? I do like a good placard. \"If not now, when?\" was the protest's unifying and unquestionably apt slogan. \"Italy is not a brothel\" probably won the top banner award. How effective they'll be remains to be seen.Do say: \"Arrivederci, whatever- the-Italian-is-for-you-alleged-fat- corrupt-perve.\"Don't say: \"Cowabunga-bunga, dude! Let's party!\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pass notes no 2,927: Women of Italy"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-02-14T20:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Age: Varied.Appearance: Angry and in a piazza near you.Really? How so? Hundreds of thousands of them rallied in Rome, many more in other Italian towns and even elsewhere in Europe, including London and Zurich, on Sunday to protest against Berlusconi's behaviour and call for his resignation.That's notizia magnifica! But you gotta ask: what took them so long? You mean, elsewhere the female electorate might have taken umbrage after the first, say, half a dozen allegations that the leader of their country consorted with escorts and prostitutes, instead of waiting until he was threatened with indictment on charges of underage sex and abuse of his position to cover up his part in the buying and selling of childflesh?Yes. Or even the electorate generally. Or even at their president's ownership of a television network showing wall-to-wall veline, long before the sex scandals came to light. Wall-to-wall veline? I think I've got that in my kitchen. Is green linoleum sexist? I didn't know.Veline are the scantily-clad young models who carve out careers holding up scorecards and posing on Berlusconi's quiz shows. And sports shows. And news shows. Any kind of show, really. Oh, yes, of course, sorry, gotcha. Well, Italian women's tolerance for sexism and misogyny is relatively high, but it turns out that even they have their limits. And the international attention garnered by tales of bunga-bunga parties and underage prostitution . . .On top of the usual accusations of bribes and corruption, along with no-confidence votes miraculously survived . . . You may take those as read . . . has succeeded in pushing them to the edge and into the piazzas in protest.Any good placards? I do like a good placard. \"If not now, when?\" was the protest's unifying and unquestionably apt slogan. \"Italy is not a brothel\" probably won the top banner award. How effective they'll be remains to be seen.Do say: \"Arrivederci, whatever- the-Italian-is-for-you-alleged-fat- corrupt-perve.\"Don't say: \"Cowabunga-bunga, dude! Let's party!\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pass notes no 2,927: Women of Italy"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:04:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Basta is a word you will hear often enough in Italy, but never, it seems, in connection with the prime minister. However outrageous or unwise the actions of Silvio Berlusconi have been, Italians have never so far said, at least in sufficient numbers or with sufficient conviction, that enough is enough. That may be changing after prosecutors in Milan this week asked for him to be put on trial for sex-related offences. A judge is expected to rule early next week on the application, and if it is granted, Mr Berlusconi could be put on trial as early as April.Mr Berlusconi has of course been painted into an apparent legal corner many times before. He has been in court so many times that the exact number is a matter of dispute, but the relationship between him and the law has in the past resembled that between an agile fox and lumbering huntsmen. He always\u00a0escapes, even when found guilty. Usually he has done this by drawing out the legal process until the statute of limitations comes into play. When the statute fell short of his requirements, he amended it, and recently tried to do so again. His control of television, in a country where only 10% of the population buy newspapers, has enabled him to bury the issues much of the time. Even now, developments which in other countries would be at the top of the TV news agenda are mysteriously halfway down it or even lower.But this time it will not be that easy for him to\u00a0leap free. The incident concerned \u2013 his alleged\u00a0payment to a 17-year-old girl for sexual\u00a0services \u2013 happened early last year, too close for a verdict to be timed out. It would be wrong to pronounce on this particular allegation, but what is indisputable is that Mr Berlusconi has had too much to do with too many young women of a certain kind. His People of Freedom movement is a party in more senses than one. What has been going on may or may not be illegal, but it is certainly distasteful. It also a huge distraction from the business of government at a time when Italy has grave economic and social problems demanding sustained attention.Meanwhile, Italians seem to have slipped into a state of cynical resignation that encompasses both their leader's faults and the degradation of the political system. Although a majority do now think Mr Berlusconi should resign, he is still in place, claiming that his reputation is being besmirched and that leftwing magistrates are out for his blood. He says that all this damages Italy, and it does, but not in the sense he means. He may now inflict even more damage by forcing an election on the question of whether the voters or the courts should choose the country's political leadership.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Politics", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: The law and Mr Berlusconi | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-02-14T20:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Age: Varied.Appearance: Angry and in a piazza near you.Really? How so? Hundreds of thousands of them rallied in Rome, many more in other Italian towns and even elsewhere in Europe, including London and Zurich, on Sunday to protest against Berlusconi's behaviour and call for his resignation.That's notizia magnifica! But you gotta ask: what took them so long? You mean, elsewhere the female electorate might have taken umbrage after the first, say, half a dozen allegations that the leader of their country consorted with escorts and prostitutes, instead of waiting until he was threatened with indictment on charges of underage sex and abuse of his position to cover up his part in the buying and selling of childflesh?Yes. Or even the electorate generally. Or even at their president's ownership of a television network showing wall-to-wall veline, long before the sex scandals came to light. Wall-to-wall veline? I think I've got that in my kitchen. Is green linoleum sexist? I didn't know.Veline are the scantily-clad young models who carve out careers holding up scorecards and posing on Berlusconi's quiz shows. And sports shows. And news shows. Any kind of show, really. Oh, yes, of course, sorry, gotcha. Well, Italian women's tolerance for sexism and misogyny is relatively high, but it turns out that even they have their limits. And the international attention garnered by tales of bunga-bunga parties and underage prostitution . . .On top of the usual accusations of bribes and corruption, along with no-confidence votes miraculously survived . . . You may take those as read . . . has succeeded in pushing them to the edge and into the piazzas in protest.Any good placards? I do like a good placard. \"If not now, when?\" was the protest's unifying and unquestionably apt slogan. \"Italy is not a brothel\" probably won the top banner award. How effective they'll be remains to be seen.Do say: \"Arrivederci, whatever- the-Italian-is-for-you-alleged-fat- corrupt-perve.\"Don't say: \"Cowabunga-bunga, dude! Let's party!\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pass notes no 2,927: Women of Italy"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:04:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Basta is a word you will hear often enough in Italy, but never, it seems, in connection with the prime minister. However outrageous or unwise the actions of Silvio Berlusconi have been, Italians have never so far said, at least in sufficient numbers or with sufficient conviction, that enough is enough. That may be changing after prosecutors in Milan this week asked for him to be put on trial for sex-related offences. A judge is expected to rule early next week on the application, and if it is granted, Mr Berlusconi could be put on trial as early as April.Mr Berlusconi has of course been painted into an apparent legal corner many times before. He has been in court so many times that the exact number is a matter of dispute, but the relationship between him and the law has in the past resembled that between an agile fox and lumbering huntsmen. He always\u00a0escapes, even when found guilty. Usually he has done this by drawing out the legal process until the statute of limitations comes into play. When the statute fell short of his requirements, he amended it, and recently tried to do so again. His control of television, in a country where only 10% of the population buy newspapers, has enabled him to bury the issues much of the time. Even now, developments which in other countries would be at the top of the TV news agenda are mysteriously halfway down it or even lower.But this time it will not be that easy for him to\u00a0leap free. The incident concerned \u2013 his alleged\u00a0payment to a 17-year-old girl for sexual\u00a0services \u2013 happened early last year, too close for a verdict to be timed out. It would be wrong to pronounce on this particular allegation, but what is indisputable is that Mr Berlusconi has had too much to do with too many young women of a certain kind. His People of Freedom movement is a party in more senses than one. What has been going on may or may not be illegal, but it is certainly distasteful. It also a huge distraction from the business of government at a time when Italy has grave economic and social problems demanding sustained attention.Meanwhile, Italians seem to have slipped into a state of cynical resignation that encompasses both their leader's faults and the degradation of the political system. Although a majority do now think Mr Berlusconi should resign, he is still in place, claiming that his reputation is being besmirched and that leftwing magistrates are out for his blood. He says that all this damages Italy, and it does, but not in the sense he means. He may now inflict even more damage by forcing an election on the question of whether the voters or the courts should choose the country's political leadership.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Politics", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: The law and Mr Berlusconi | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-29T00:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Efforts appear to be under way to offer Muammar Gaddafi a way of escape from Libya, with Italy saying it was trying to organise an African haven for him, and the US signalling it would not try to stop the dictator from fleeing.The move came amid mounting diplomatic and military pressure on Gaddafi as Britain tries to assemble a global consensus demanding he surrender power while intensifying air strikes against his forces. An international conference in London \u2013 including the UN, Arab states, the African Union, and more than 40 foreign ministers \u2013 will focus on co-ordinating assistance in the face of a possible humanitarian disaster and building a unified international front in condemnation of the Gaddafi regime and in support of Nato-led military action in Libya.On the eve of the conference, Italy offered to broker a ceasefire deal in Libya, involving asylum for Gaddafi in an African country. \"Gaddafi must understand that it would be an act of courage to say: 'I understand that I have to go',\" said the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini. \"We hope that the African Union can find a valid proposal.\"A senior American official signalled that a solution in which Gaddafi flees to a country beyond the reach of the international criminal court (ICC), which is investigating war crimes charges against him, would be acceptable to Washington, pointing out that Barack Obama had repeatedly called on Gaddafi to leave.\"I can't say I know of active efforts to find him a place to go, but I would not say it has been ruled out,\" the official said. \"The ICC has said it will ready to pursue the case, but there are also the rules of the ICC,\" he added, pointing out that some countries do not recognise the court's jurisdiction.British officials said they would rather see Gaddafi face trial, but if his escape was the price of a peaceful settlement they would be able to live with that.David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy tried to ratchet up the pressure on Gaddafi, issuing a joint statement on the eve of the conference declaring his era over, and indicating that his lieutenants might escape prosecution if they abandoned him immediately. \"We call on all his followers to leave him before it is too late,\" they said.Meanwhile Obama gave a televised speech to the American people in which he explained why the US was involved in the conflict, as a response to his domestic critics over the crisis. The US president increased the pressure on Gaddafi by saying it was imperative his rule be ended. \"We continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator but to its people,\" he said. \"Gaddafi has not yet stepped down from power and until he does Libya will remain dangerous.\"He also used his speech to emphasise that strikes against Gaddafi's forces would continue even as American leadership of the campaign transferred to Nato tomorrow. \"Our coalition will keep the pressure on Gaddafi's forces,\" he said.Meanwhile, with the Libyan regime's forces and rebels squared for a battle around Gaddafi's birthplace of Sirte, British planes taking part in the coalition campaign stepped up their bombardment.RAF Tornados hit 22 tanks, armoured vehicles and artillery pieces over the weekend, the Ministry of Defence said. Early Monday, they struck ammunition bunkers near Subha in southern Libya, according to Major General John Lorimer, the MoD's chief military spokesman. Defence officials said the higher tempo was the result of more intelligence surveillance and assessments from reconnaissance aircraft.Discord over the air strikes threatens to undermine the consensus the UK will attempt to construct at the Lancaster House conference. Russia denounced the air campaign, arguing it violated UN security council resolution 1973, which permitted \"all necessary measures\" to protect civilians. Foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said: \"We consider that intervention by the coalition in what is essentially an internal civil war is not sanctioned.\"Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was also critical, and in a symbolic blow to the London conference, it emerged that Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League \u2013 whose support for military action was deemed crucial by Washington and its allies \u2013 would not be attending, sending a deputy instead.The joint statement issued by Cameron and the French president was intended in part to heal discord over the command of the air campaign and France's recognition of the Benghazi-based National Libyan Council. The rebels are not invited to the conference, but William Hague is expected to meet one of their leaders, Mahmoud Jibril. The shadow defence secretary, Jim Murphy, will warn today: \"The bravery of the Libyan opposition is not in doubt. What is unclear is the motives of some, other than the removal of Gaddafi. As the opposition move westwards across Libya it is crucial that we better understand who they are and their wider ambitions.\"", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Nato", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "US news", "World news", "International criminal court", "Africa", "International criminal justice"], "title": "Diplomats discuss Libya's future as Italy plots Gaddafi's escape route"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-02-14T20:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Age: Varied.Appearance: Angry and in a piazza near you.Really? How so? Hundreds of thousands of them rallied in Rome, many more in other Italian towns and even elsewhere in Europe, including London and Zurich, on Sunday to protest against Berlusconi's behaviour and call for his resignation.That's notizia magnifica! But you gotta ask: what took them so long? You mean, elsewhere the female electorate might have taken umbrage after the first, say, half a dozen allegations that the leader of their country consorted with escorts and prostitutes, instead of waiting until he was threatened with indictment on charges of underage sex and abuse of his position to cover up his part in the buying and selling of childflesh?Yes. Or even the electorate generally. Or even at their president's ownership of a television network showing wall-to-wall veline, long before the sex scandals came to light. Wall-to-wall veline? I think I've got that in my kitchen. Is green linoleum sexist? I didn't know.Veline are the scantily-clad young models who carve out careers holding up scorecards and posing on Berlusconi's quiz shows. And sports shows. And news shows. Any kind of show, really. Oh, yes, of course, sorry, gotcha. Well, Italian women's tolerance for sexism and misogyny is relatively high, but it turns out that even they have their limits. And the international attention garnered by tales of bunga-bunga parties and underage prostitution . . .On top of the usual accusations of bribes and corruption, along with no-confidence votes miraculously survived . . . You may take those as read . . . has succeeded in pushing them to the edge and into the piazzas in protest.Any good placards? I do like a good placard. \"If not now, when?\" was the protest's unifying and unquestionably apt slogan. \"Italy is not a brothel\" probably won the top banner award. How effective they'll be remains to be seen.Do say: \"Arrivederci, whatever- the-Italian-is-for-you-alleged-fat- corrupt-perve.\"Don't say: \"Cowabunga-bunga, dude! Let's party!\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pass notes no 2,927: Women of Italy"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:04:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Basta is a word you will hear often enough in Italy, but never, it seems, in connection with the prime minister. However outrageous or unwise the actions of Silvio Berlusconi have been, Italians have never so far said, at least in sufficient numbers or with sufficient conviction, that enough is enough. That may be changing after prosecutors in Milan this week asked for him to be put on trial for sex-related offences. A judge is expected to rule early next week on the application, and if it is granted, Mr Berlusconi could be put on trial as early as April.Mr Berlusconi has of course been painted into an apparent legal corner many times before. He has been in court so many times that the exact number is a matter of dispute, but the relationship between him and the law has in the past resembled that between an agile fox and lumbering huntsmen. He always\u00a0escapes, even when found guilty. Usually he has done this by drawing out the legal process until the statute of limitations comes into play. When the statute fell short of his requirements, he amended it, and recently tried to do so again. His control of television, in a country where only 10% of the population buy newspapers, has enabled him to bury the issues much of the time. Even now, developments which in other countries would be at the top of the TV news agenda are mysteriously halfway down it or even lower.But this time it will not be that easy for him to\u00a0leap free. The incident concerned \u2013 his alleged\u00a0payment to a 17-year-old girl for sexual\u00a0services \u2013 happened early last year, too close for a verdict to be timed out. It would be wrong to pronounce on this particular allegation, but what is indisputable is that Mr Berlusconi has had too much to do with too many young women of a certain kind. His People of Freedom movement is a party in more senses than one. What has been going on may or may not be illegal, but it is certainly distasteful. It also a huge distraction from the business of government at a time when Italy has grave economic and social problems demanding sustained attention.Meanwhile, Italians seem to have slipped into a state of cynical resignation that encompasses both their leader's faults and the degradation of the political system. Although a majority do now think Mr Berlusconi should resign, he is still in place, claiming that his reputation is being besmirched and that leftwing magistrates are out for his blood. He says that all this damages Italy, and it does, but not in the sense he means. He may now inflict even more damage by forcing an election on the question of whether the voters or the courts should choose the country's political leadership.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Politics", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: The law and Mr Berlusconi | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-29T00:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Efforts appear to be under way to offer Muammar Gaddafi a way of escape from Libya, with Italy saying it was trying to organise an African haven for him, and the US signalling it would not try to stop the dictator from fleeing.The move came amid mounting diplomatic and military pressure on Gaddafi as Britain tries to assemble a global consensus demanding he surrender power while intensifying air strikes against his forces. An international conference in London \u2013 including the UN, Arab states, the African Union, and more than 40 foreign ministers \u2013 will focus on co-ordinating assistance in the face of a possible humanitarian disaster and building a unified international front in condemnation of the Gaddafi regime and in support of Nato-led military action in Libya.On the eve of the conference, Italy offered to broker a ceasefire deal in Libya, involving asylum for Gaddafi in an African country. \"Gaddafi must understand that it would be an act of courage to say: 'I understand that I have to go',\" said the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini. \"We hope that the African Union can find a valid proposal.\"A senior American official signalled that a solution in which Gaddafi flees to a country beyond the reach of the international criminal court (ICC), which is investigating war crimes charges against him, would be acceptable to Washington, pointing out that Barack Obama had repeatedly called on Gaddafi to leave.\"I can't say I know of active efforts to find him a place to go, but I would not say it has been ruled out,\" the official said. \"The ICC has said it will ready to pursue the case, but there are also the rules of the ICC,\" he added, pointing out that some countries do not recognise the court's jurisdiction.British officials said they would rather see Gaddafi face trial, but if his escape was the price of a peaceful settlement they would be able to live with that.David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy tried to ratchet up the pressure on Gaddafi, issuing a joint statement on the eve of the conference declaring his era over, and indicating that his lieutenants might escape prosecution if they abandoned him immediately. \"We call on all his followers to leave him before it is too late,\" they said.Meanwhile Obama gave a televised speech to the American people in which he explained why the US was involved in the conflict, as a response to his domestic critics over the crisis. The US president increased the pressure on Gaddafi by saying it was imperative his rule be ended. \"We continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator but to its people,\" he said. \"Gaddafi has not yet stepped down from power and until he does Libya will remain dangerous.\"He also used his speech to emphasise that strikes against Gaddafi's forces would continue even as American leadership of the campaign transferred to Nato tomorrow. \"Our coalition will keep the pressure on Gaddafi's forces,\" he said.Meanwhile, with the Libyan regime's forces and rebels squared for a battle around Gaddafi's birthplace of Sirte, British planes taking part in the coalition campaign stepped up their bombardment.RAF Tornados hit 22 tanks, armoured vehicles and artillery pieces over the weekend, the Ministry of Defence said. Early Monday, they struck ammunition bunkers near Subha in southern Libya, according to Major General John Lorimer, the MoD's chief military spokesman. Defence officials said the higher tempo was the result of more intelligence surveillance and assessments from reconnaissance aircraft.Discord over the air strikes threatens to undermine the consensus the UK will attempt to construct at the Lancaster House conference. Russia denounced the air campaign, arguing it violated UN security council resolution 1973, which permitted \"all necessary measures\" to protect civilians. Foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said: \"We consider that intervention by the coalition in what is essentially an internal civil war is not sanctioned.\"Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was also critical, and in a symbolic blow to the London conference, it emerged that Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League \u2013 whose support for military action was deemed crucial by Washington and its allies \u2013 would not be attending, sending a deputy instead.The joint statement issued by Cameron and the French president was intended in part to heal discord over the command of the air campaign and France's recognition of the Benghazi-based National Libyan Council. The rebels are not invited to the conference, but William Hague is expected to meet one of their leaders, Mahmoud Jibril. The shadow defence secretary, Jim Murphy, will warn today: \"The bravery of the Libyan opposition is not in doubt. What is unclear is the motives of some, other than the removal of Gaddafi. As the opposition move westwards across Libya it is crucial that we better understand who they are and their wider ambitions.\"", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Nato", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "US news", "World news", "International criminal court", "Africa", "International criminal justice"], "title": "Diplomats discuss Libya's future as Italy plots Gaddafi's escape route"},{"date": "2011-03-28T20:21:54Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Manchester City's troubled striker Mario Balotelli has been told he must mature before being reconsidered for the Italian national team. The warning comes as Roberto Mancini, the City manager, considers whether to discipline the 20-year-old for allegedly throwing darts at youth team players.Balotelli was omitted from Italy's European Championship qualifier against Slovenia last Friday and Tuesday's friendly against Ukraine following his red card in City's Europa League defeat by Dynamo Kyiv. Mancini criticised his compatriot for the \"stupid\" challenge on Goran Popov before demoting him to the bench for the defeat at Chelsea three days later.Now the president of the Italian Football Federation, Giancarlo Abete, has warned the former Internazionale player that his career will continue to suffer for club and country unless his behaviour improves.\"Balotelli still has some problems and lacks continuity,\" said Abete. \"He needs to mature and that has to be a personal choice. We hope he grows and that the focus is placed on his technical ability. He is a great champion of Italian football and will return to be a part of the national team.\"Abete's hopes have not been encouraged by the latest controversy to blight Balotelli's career, with the striker alleged to have thrown darts at members of City's youth team from a first floor window at the club's training complex last week. Balotelli was only present at Carrington due to his exclusion from international duty and, though no one was hurt in the incident, Mancini will demand an explanation from his \u00a324m signing when the manager returns to the club today before deciding whether disciplinary action is warranted.No measures have been taken against the forward by the club so far but the allegation is another untimely problem for Mancini as he strives to deliver Champions League football to Eastlands, and for City's ambitious owners, next season.Cesare Prandelli, the Italy manager, has echoed Abete's stance that Balotelli does have a future at international level providing he addresses his disruptive behaviour. \"Everyone is responsible for their own behaviour,\" said Prandelli. \"Balotelli has to understand that with this type of behaviour, he is only hurting himself. We have sent him positives messages. I think he is struggling, he is in need of affection, being considered and perhaps this is his way of expressing this need.\"Italy's win in Slovenia on Friday prompted Prandelli to revise plans to recall the City striker for the friendly against Ukraine. \"I considered calling him after the game against Slovenia but then I thought it was best not to because this group has responded well,\" he said. And the former Fiorentina coach admits Balotelli must use the remainder of City's season to regain trust at international level.\"I want responsible players in my national team. The external episodes that surround Balotelli are annoying but this has happened in the past with other players so this is nothing new,\" added Prandelli.\"In certain cases the behaviour off the pitch conditions the judgement of what you do on the pitch. It will be his performances on the pitch in the next two months that will make us understand if he is ready to begin an adventure with us. He will have to do well with City and make sure people talk about him for what he does on the pitch. Only then will he become an important player for the national team because his talent cannot be questioned.\"City have suffered an injury setback after the German football federation said the defender J\u00e9r\u00f4me Boateng needs surgery on his right knee. Boateng hurt the knee while warming up for Saturday's European Championship qualifier against Kazakhstan and has returned to Manchester. City are also without another key defender in Micah Richards.", "tags": ["Mario Balotelli", "Football", "Manchester City", "Roberto Mancini"], "title": "Mario Balotelli 'must grow up' before being reconsidered for Italy"},{"date": "2011-03-27T14:07:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On a roll after securing Unesco status for the Mediterranean diet, Italy is mulling over an attempt to place the Neapolitan pizza in the pantheon of cultural icons drawn up by the United Nations.After years of lobbying, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its \"intangible\" cultural heritage list - which recognises festivals, music and crafts alongside its better-known ranking of temples and castles - last year.Now Italy has put together a shortlist of candidates for consideration in 2011, including pizza from Naples, Sienna's Palio horse race, violin-making in Cremona, Viareggio's extravagant carnival procession and ancient festivals in towns such as Nola and Viterbo, where locals carry huge statues on their shoulders and totter round tiny streets.Also in the running are the small grapevines planted in depressions in the volcanic soil on the island of Pantelleria, where they are sheltered from the fierce sea wind and produce the nectar-like Passito dessert wine.With only two candidates set to make the final list Italy sends to Unesco for consideration, Corriere della Sera claimed the smart money was on pizza and Cremona's violin makers, who are fighting off Chinese competition four centuries after Antonio Stradivari opened his workshop there.But the headlines in Italy have focused on pizza after it was this year voted by Italians as one of the dishes which best sums up their nation. It was narrowly outvoted by pasta with tomato sauce, but beat bruschetta with olive oil into a distant third.The Unesco shortlist specifies pizza from Naples, where the dish was born in the 1700s, and where a pie topped with mozzarella, tomato and basil leaves \u2013 recreating the red, white and green of the Italian flag \u2013 was presented to Queen Margherita of Savoy in 1889 and named after her.Naples' pizzaioli, the skilled spinners of pizza dough, still insist those three ingredients are all that is required for a perfect pizza and opt for a softer, deeper crust than the thinner, crispier version favoured by Romans.\"A good pizzaiolo leaves the dough to rise for up to 24 hours before baking it in a wood-fired oven to ensure a light, digestible pizza,\" the food writer Davide Paolini said.As the dish edges towards Unesco status, the Italian farmers' lobby group Coldiretti warned the UN that protection was urgently required.\"Consumers don't know this, but at least half of all pizzas contain imported ingredients,\" it said in a statement, adding that Italians were unwittingly tucking in to Margheritas made with Chinese tomatoes, Tunisian and Spanish olive oil \"and even seed oil instead of Italian extra virgin\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "United Nations", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Unesco", "Pizza"], "title": "Italy seeks Unesco protection for Neapolitan pizza"},{"date": "2011-02-14T20:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Age: Varied.Appearance: Angry and in a piazza near you.Really? How so? Hundreds of thousands of them rallied in Rome, many more in other Italian towns and even elsewhere in Europe, including London and Zurich, on Sunday to protest against Berlusconi's behaviour and call for his resignation.That's notizia magnifica! But you gotta ask: what took them so long? You mean, elsewhere the female electorate might have taken umbrage after the first, say, half a dozen allegations that the leader of their country consorted with escorts and prostitutes, instead of waiting until he was threatened with indictment on charges of underage sex and abuse of his position to cover up his part in the buying and selling of childflesh?Yes. Or even the electorate generally. Or even at their president's ownership of a television network showing wall-to-wall veline, long before the sex scandals came to light. Wall-to-wall veline? I think I've got that in my kitchen. Is green linoleum sexist? I didn't know.Veline are the scantily-clad young models who carve out careers holding up scorecards and posing on Berlusconi's quiz shows. And sports shows. And news shows. Any kind of show, really. Oh, yes, of course, sorry, gotcha. Well, Italian women's tolerance for sexism and misogyny is relatively high, but it turns out that even they have their limits. And the international attention garnered by tales of bunga-bunga parties and underage prostitution . . .On top of the usual accusations of bribes and corruption, along with no-confidence votes miraculously survived . . . You may take those as read . . . has succeeded in pushing them to the edge and into the piazzas in protest.Any good placards? I do like a good placard. \"If not now, when?\" was the protest's unifying and unquestionably apt slogan. \"Italy is not a brothel\" probably won the top banner award. How effective they'll be remains to be seen.Do say: \"Arrivederci, whatever- the-Italian-is-for-you-alleged-fat- corrupt-perve.\"Don't say: \"Cowabunga-bunga, dude! Let's party!\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pass notes no 2,927: Women of Italy"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:04:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Basta is a word you will hear often enough in Italy, but never, it seems, in connection with the prime minister. However outrageous or unwise the actions of Silvio Berlusconi have been, Italians have never so far said, at least in sufficient numbers or with sufficient conviction, that enough is enough. That may be changing after prosecutors in Milan this week asked for him to be put on trial for sex-related offences. A judge is expected to rule early next week on the application, and if it is granted, Mr Berlusconi could be put on trial as early as April.Mr Berlusconi has of course been painted into an apparent legal corner many times before. He has been in court so many times that the exact number is a matter of dispute, but the relationship between him and the law has in the past resembled that between an agile fox and lumbering huntsmen. He always\u00a0escapes, even when found guilty. Usually he has done this by drawing out the legal process until the statute of limitations comes into play. When the statute fell short of his requirements, he amended it, and recently tried to do so again. His control of television, in a country where only 10% of the population buy newspapers, has enabled him to bury the issues much of the time. Even now, developments which in other countries would be at the top of the TV news agenda are mysteriously halfway down it or even lower.But this time it will not be that easy for him to\u00a0leap free. The incident concerned \u2013 his alleged\u00a0payment to a 17-year-old girl for sexual\u00a0services \u2013 happened early last year, too close for a verdict to be timed out. It would be wrong to pronounce on this particular allegation, but what is indisputable is that Mr Berlusconi has had too much to do with too many young women of a certain kind. His People of Freedom movement is a party in more senses than one. What has been going on may or may not be illegal, but it is certainly distasteful. It also a huge distraction from the business of government at a time when Italy has grave economic and social problems demanding sustained attention.Meanwhile, Italians seem to have slipped into a state of cynical resignation that encompasses both their leader's faults and the degradation of the political system. Although a majority do now think Mr Berlusconi should resign, he is still in place, claiming that his reputation is being besmirched and that leftwing magistrates are out for his blood. He says that all this damages Italy, and it does, but not in the sense he means. He may now inflict even more damage by forcing an election on the question of whether the voters or the courts should choose the country's political leadership.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Politics", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: The law and Mr Berlusconi | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-29T00:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Efforts appear to be under way to offer Muammar Gaddafi a way of escape from Libya, with Italy saying it was trying to organise an African haven for him, and the US signalling it would not try to stop the dictator from fleeing.The move came amid mounting diplomatic and military pressure on Gaddafi as Britain tries to assemble a global consensus demanding he surrender power while intensifying air strikes against his forces. An international conference in London \u2013 including the UN, Arab states, the African Union, and more than 40 foreign ministers \u2013 will focus on co-ordinating assistance in the face of a possible humanitarian disaster and building a unified international front in condemnation of the Gaddafi regime and in support of Nato-led military action in Libya.On the eve of the conference, Italy offered to broker a ceasefire deal in Libya, involving asylum for Gaddafi in an African country. \"Gaddafi must understand that it would be an act of courage to say: 'I understand that I have to go',\" said the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini. \"We hope that the African Union can find a valid proposal.\"A senior American official signalled that a solution in which Gaddafi flees to a country beyond the reach of the international criminal court (ICC), which is investigating war crimes charges against him, would be acceptable to Washington, pointing out that Barack Obama had repeatedly called on Gaddafi to leave.\"I can't say I know of active efforts to find him a place to go, but I would not say it has been ruled out,\" the official said. \"The ICC has said it will ready to pursue the case, but there are also the rules of the ICC,\" he added, pointing out that some countries do not recognise the court's jurisdiction.British officials said they would rather see Gaddafi face trial, but if his escape was the price of a peaceful settlement they would be able to live with that.David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy tried to ratchet up the pressure on Gaddafi, issuing a joint statement on the eve of the conference declaring his era over, and indicating that his lieutenants might escape prosecution if they abandoned him immediately. \"We call on all his followers to leave him before it is too late,\" they said.Meanwhile Obama gave a televised speech to the American people in which he explained why the US was involved in the conflict, as a response to his domestic critics over the crisis. The US president increased the pressure on Gaddafi by saying it was imperative his rule be ended. \"We continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator but to its people,\" he said. \"Gaddafi has not yet stepped down from power and until he does Libya will remain dangerous.\"He also used his speech to emphasise that strikes against Gaddafi's forces would continue even as American leadership of the campaign transferred to Nato tomorrow. \"Our coalition will keep the pressure on Gaddafi's forces,\" he said.Meanwhile, with the Libyan regime's forces and rebels squared for a battle around Gaddafi's birthplace of Sirte, British planes taking part in the coalition campaign stepped up their bombardment.RAF Tornados hit 22 tanks, armoured vehicles and artillery pieces over the weekend, the Ministry of Defence said. Early Monday, they struck ammunition bunkers near Subha in southern Libya, according to Major General John Lorimer, the MoD's chief military spokesman. Defence officials said the higher tempo was the result of more intelligence surveillance and assessments from reconnaissance aircraft.Discord over the air strikes threatens to undermine the consensus the UK will attempt to construct at the Lancaster House conference. Russia denounced the air campaign, arguing it violated UN security council resolution 1973, which permitted \"all necessary measures\" to protect civilians. Foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said: \"We consider that intervention by the coalition in what is essentially an internal civil war is not sanctioned.\"Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was also critical, and in a symbolic blow to the London conference, it emerged that Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League \u2013 whose support for military action was deemed crucial by Washington and its allies \u2013 would not be attending, sending a deputy instead.The joint statement issued by Cameron and the French president was intended in part to heal discord over the command of the air campaign and France's recognition of the Benghazi-based National Libyan Council. The rebels are not invited to the conference, but William Hague is expected to meet one of their leaders, Mahmoud Jibril. The shadow defence secretary, Jim Murphy, will warn today: \"The bravery of the Libyan opposition is not in doubt. What is unclear is the motives of some, other than the removal of Gaddafi. As the opposition move westwards across Libya it is crucial that we better understand who they are and their wider ambitions.\"", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Nato", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "US news", "World news", "International criminal court", "Africa", "International criminal justice"], "title": "Diplomats discuss Libya's future as Italy plots Gaddafi's escape route"},{"date": "2011-03-28T20:21:54Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Manchester City's troubled striker Mario Balotelli has been told he must mature before being reconsidered for the Italian national team. The warning comes as Roberto Mancini, the City manager, considers whether to discipline the 20-year-old for allegedly throwing darts at youth team players.Balotelli was omitted from Italy's European Championship qualifier against Slovenia last Friday and Tuesday's friendly against Ukraine following his red card in City's Europa League defeat by Dynamo Kyiv. Mancini criticised his compatriot for the \"stupid\" challenge on Goran Popov before demoting him to the bench for the defeat at Chelsea three days later.Now the president of the Italian Football Federation, Giancarlo Abete, has warned the former Internazionale player that his career will continue to suffer for club and country unless his behaviour improves.\"Balotelli still has some problems and lacks continuity,\" said Abete. \"He needs to mature and that has to be a personal choice. We hope he grows and that the focus is placed on his technical ability. He is a great champion of Italian football and will return to be a part of the national team.\"Abete's hopes have not been encouraged by the latest controversy to blight Balotelli's career, with the striker alleged to have thrown darts at members of City's youth team from a first floor window at the club's training complex last week. Balotelli was only present at Carrington due to his exclusion from international duty and, though no one was hurt in the incident, Mancini will demand an explanation from his \u00a324m signing when the manager returns to the club today before deciding whether disciplinary action is warranted.No measures have been taken against the forward by the club so far but the allegation is another untimely problem for Mancini as he strives to deliver Champions League football to Eastlands, and for City's ambitious owners, next season.Cesare Prandelli, the Italy manager, has echoed Abete's stance that Balotelli does have a future at international level providing he addresses his disruptive behaviour. \"Everyone is responsible for their own behaviour,\" said Prandelli. \"Balotelli has to understand that with this type of behaviour, he is only hurting himself. We have sent him positives messages. I think he is struggling, he is in need of affection, being considered and perhaps this is his way of expressing this need.\"Italy's win in Slovenia on Friday prompted Prandelli to revise plans to recall the City striker for the friendly against Ukraine. \"I considered calling him after the game against Slovenia but then I thought it was best not to because this group has responded well,\" he said. And the former Fiorentina coach admits Balotelli must use the remainder of City's season to regain trust at international level.\"I want responsible players in my national team. The external episodes that surround Balotelli are annoying but this has happened in the past with other players so this is nothing new,\" added Prandelli.\"In certain cases the behaviour off the pitch conditions the judgement of what you do on the pitch. It will be his performances on the pitch in the next two months that will make us understand if he is ready to begin an adventure with us. He will have to do well with City and make sure people talk about him for what he does on the pitch. Only then will he become an important player for the national team because his talent cannot be questioned.\"City have suffered an injury setback after the German football federation said the defender J\u00e9r\u00f4me Boateng needs surgery on his right knee. Boateng hurt the knee while warming up for Saturday's European Championship qualifier against Kazakhstan and has returned to Manchester. City are also without another key defender in Micah Richards.", "tags": ["Mario Balotelli", "Football", "Manchester City", "Roberto Mancini"], "title": "Mario Balotelli 'must grow up' before being reconsidered for Italy"},{"date": "2011-03-22T13:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bergamo is decked with flags. All the way from the lower to the upper town there are Italian flags in all the windows to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Italy's unification.The city showed off its patriotic fervour on 2 February when it welcomed the president, Giorgio Napolitano. Along his route the crowd waved flags and shouted \"Viva l'Italia\". This is hardly surprising from the town that in 1860 contributed 180 patriots to Giuseppe Garibaldi's famous Thousand. A year later, on 17 March 1861, his campaign led to a reunified, sovereign kingdom of Italy. But that is a kind of paradox in this bastion of the Northern League, which advocates independence for northern Italy.Ettore Pirovano, the Northern League leader of the provincial council, with more than a third of the vote in 2010, is a perfect example of this contradiction. Two of his ancestors joined Garibaldi's march and he proudly showed us their photographs on his computer. \"They were adventurers,\" he said. \"They thought Garibaldi was a sort of Buffalo Bill.\" It does not occur to him that this might seem odd. \"From Garibaldi to the Northern League, it's all part of the same story,\" he explained. \"Yes, we too are trying to help the south by setting up a truly federal tax system, without which unification is incomplete. If we succeed, we shall reconcile Italians with the state and carry on Garibaldi's adventure.\"The anniversary was a holiday in the province, despite Northern League opposition. Many people in Bergamo seem to be trying to sustain dual loyalty, to the ideal of unity and the cause of independence.\"It's our paradox,\" said Ettore Oncis, editor of the local daily, L'Eco di Bergamo. \"We contributed to unifying Italy, but we find it increasingly difficult to live with. The League is the only party to express this feeling. It is not against unity, just the use to which it is put, which is detrimental to diversity and encourages scrounging, bureaucracy and excessive centralisation of power.\"Lombardy is a prosperous region, and the state has come to be seen as an enemy. \"Work accounts for about three-quarters of a person's identity here,\" Oncis added. \"What do they want from the state? Fewer problems and greater efficiency. But that doesn't mean they lack a sense of a common destiny.\"Lawyer Carlo Salviano, who helped set up a history museum about local unification heroes, is not amused by the idea of putting Garibaldi into a green shirt, the League's colour. \"Garibaldi is such a powerful figure everyone wants to take him on board to support their ideology,\" he said. Between a bust and a painting, we caught sight of Garibaldi's shirt, still red.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Bergamo divided as Italy celebrates anniversary of independence"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-04-06T09:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The dramatic political changes of the Arab spring and the civil war in Libya have dominated British headlines for the last few months. Much less coverage, at least in the English-speaking press, has been given to the crisis closer to home, as thousands of Tunisians and Libyans fleeing north Africa arrived on Lampedusa, an Italian island seen by many as an entrance to Europe.Kept at the island's port, the refugees built themselves tents from plastic sheets and waited for the government to prepare its plans. The conditions at the camp have been severely criticised by NGOs \u2013 particularly M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res, the Red Cross, and Amnesty International \u2013 as a nightmare unfit for human existence. The migrants themselves have complained of being treated as animals. Last Thursday and Friday almost 2,000 refugees were transferred to Taranto in the southern region of Puglia, and the remaining 4,000 on the island are gradually being taken elsewhere. Last night, a boat carrying 200 refugees capsized off the coast of the island; 150 people are still missing.The reaction from Italy's leaders has been unequivocal: the refugees' presence is only temporary. Likening the crisis to a \"human tsunami\" engulfing the country, a tsunami made up of \"5,000 Tunisian citizens who are not particularly acceptable\", Silvio Berlusconi has offered deportation as the only resolution, promising to get the migrants out of the way and life on Lampedusa back to normal in a matter of days.This response should not come as a surprise. For the past two decades the political debate on immigration and asylum in Italy has been dominated by those equating the presence of foreigners to increased crime and insecurity, calling for the closing of Italy's borders, a stepping up of internal security measures and the deportation of undocumented migrants. In the current situation this discourse of security and expulsion has permeated the government's practice.This explains the Italian foreign minister's current attempt to find any willing takers on to which to pass the north African migrants. However, his hands are tied by European Union legislation, namely the Dublin convention of 1990, stating that applications for asylum in the EU must be processed in the country of arrival. So, despite the fact that many of the migrants are not even intending to remain in Italy, with thousands attempting to reach relatives in France, they are unable to cross the border until their applications have been processed.The Italian government faces a dilemma. Its goal is to get rid of the migrants without granting thousands of visas. But in order to pass migrants on to other EU member states, it must first grant asylum status and permission to reside in Italy. These are thousands of the very foreigners they have spent so long trying to keep out.The answer for the Berlusconi government is to send them back to Africa. However, in ensuring that the migrant's presence is temporary, the Berlusconi government has failed to ensure adequate levels of care in Italy. Indeed, although the arrival of the refugees has been called a humanitarian crisis, the response has had little of the \"humanitarian\" about it.Reinforcing the temporary nature of their presence, the migrants are to be housed in camps far removed from Italian society to await their deportation orders. But while NGOs complain about a shortage of drinking water, a lack of sanitation and poor sleeping arrangements, the interior minister Roberto Maroni promises increased surveillance, an increased police presence by 150%, a horse-back security force to patrol the camp perimeter, and other measures included in a \"security pact\" with regional government.This is not a humanitarian response. This is a military-security mission designed to ensure the foreigners are kept separate and sent away as quickly as possible. By concentrating on the expulsion of migrants through the use of public order and security measures, the very rights, freedoms and humanitarian assistance that Europe's leaders claim to be supporting in north Africa have been denied within Europe's borders. But with more refugees expected to leave Libya over the coming weeks, this should not just be seen as a problem for Rome but a challenge for Brussels, too.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 April 2011. The original said that the refugees were being kept at the island's port of Manduria. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Italy", "Refugees", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Italy is failing north Africa's refugees | Simon McMahon"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-04-06T09:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The dramatic political changes of the Arab spring and the civil war in Libya have dominated British headlines for the last few months. Much less coverage, at least in the English-speaking press, has been given to the crisis closer to home, as thousands of Tunisians and Libyans fleeing north Africa arrived on Lampedusa, an Italian island seen by many as an entrance to Europe.Kept at the island's port, the refugees built themselves tents from plastic sheets and waited for the government to prepare its plans. The conditions at the camp have been severely criticised by NGOs \u2013 particularly M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res, the Red Cross, and Amnesty International \u2013 as a nightmare unfit for human existence. The migrants themselves have complained of being treated as animals. Last Thursday and Friday almost 2,000 refugees were transferred to Taranto in the southern region of Puglia, and the remaining 4,000 on the island are gradually being taken elsewhere. Last night, a boat carrying 200 refugees capsized off the coast of the island; 150 people are still missing.The reaction from Italy's leaders has been unequivocal: the refugees' presence is only temporary. Likening the crisis to a \"human tsunami\" engulfing the country, a tsunami made up of \"5,000 Tunisian citizens who are not particularly acceptable\", Silvio Berlusconi has offered deportation as the only resolution, promising to get the migrants out of the way and life on Lampedusa back to normal in a matter of days.This response should not come as a surprise. For the past two decades the political debate on immigration and asylum in Italy has been dominated by those equating the presence of foreigners to increased crime and insecurity, calling for the closing of Italy's borders, a stepping up of internal security measures and the deportation of undocumented migrants. In the current situation this discourse of security and expulsion has permeated the government's practice.This explains the Italian foreign minister's current attempt to find any willing takers on to which to pass the north African migrants. However, his hands are tied by European Union legislation, namely the Dublin convention of 1990, stating that applications for asylum in the EU must be processed in the country of arrival. So, despite the fact that many of the migrants are not even intending to remain in Italy, with thousands attempting to reach relatives in France, they are unable to cross the border until their applications have been processed.The Italian government faces a dilemma. Its goal is to get rid of the migrants without granting thousands of visas. But in order to pass migrants on to other EU member states, it must first grant asylum status and permission to reside in Italy. These are thousands of the very foreigners they have spent so long trying to keep out.The answer for the Berlusconi government is to send them back to Africa. However, in ensuring that the migrant's presence is temporary, the Berlusconi government has failed to ensure adequate levels of care in Italy. Indeed, although the arrival of the refugees has been called a humanitarian crisis, the response has had little of the \"humanitarian\" about it.Reinforcing the temporary nature of their presence, the migrants are to be housed in camps far removed from Italian society to await their deportation orders. But while NGOs complain about a shortage of drinking water, a lack of sanitation and poor sleeping arrangements, the interior minister Roberto Maroni promises increased surveillance, an increased police presence by 150%, a horse-back security force to patrol the camp perimeter, and other measures included in a \"security pact\" with regional government.This is not a humanitarian response. This is a military-security mission designed to ensure the foreigners are kept separate and sent away as quickly as possible. By concentrating on the expulsion of migrants through the use of public order and security measures, the very rights, freedoms and humanitarian assistance that Europe's leaders claim to be supporting in north Africa have been denied within Europe's borders. But with more refugees expected to leave Libya over the coming weeks, this should not just be seen as a problem for Rome but a challenge for Brussels, too.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 April 2011. The original said that the refugees were being kept at the island's port of Manduria. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Italy", "Refugees", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Italy is failing north Africa's refugees | Simon McMahon"},{"date": "2011-05-03T12:58:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "They call it the \"migrants' village\". On entering the square at Riace, perched on a hill near the coast at the far end of Calabria, in Italy, you soon understand why. The girls running around are from Ethiopia, Eritrea or Somalia. Their mothers watch from the dressmaking workshop up the street. A sign is marked \"Host Town\".At the other end of Italy the Tunisians who have landed on Lampedusa in recent weeks have met with hostility, but here the mayor, Domenico Luciano, told the government the locality was prepared to accommodate its share of the newcomers. About 40 other councils in the region have announced they are ready to follow the example set by Riace in July 1998.When a boat carrying 300 Kurds landed, local people immediately opened their doors, triggering a sudden change of outlook. The foreigners were a boon for the village with its dwindling population.At one point there were 2,500 inhabitants, but only a few hundred are still in the town. In 1972 the discovery off the coast of two fifth-century BC Greek sculptures \u2013 the Riace bronzes \u2013 turned into yet another disappointment. The statues were taken away to a museum in Reggio di Calabria, and with them the tourists who were supposed to flock here.Riace decided it would fill the gap left by the many migrants who had moved to Canada or Australia with incomers. \"There was once again some hope for the future, with a new sense of pulling together. People were leaving, the school had closed, there was a growing lack of basic services. We began to wonder if there was any point in planning public works, or even sustaining the village which was gradually emptying. But the new arrivals brought fresh hopes,\" Luciano says.Sitting in the cafe or shopping at the market, local people now view the situation as normal. \"The population has gone up again quite a lot, but I can tell you, the place was literally dead,\" said a local man.A neighbour endorsed this view, looking at children running along the narrow streets: \"For us, they are all grandchildren.\"A non-profit organisation looks out for empty homes and refurbishes them to accommodate refugees. While they wait for the grants given to asylum-seekers, which are subject to long delays, the migrants can use a local currency in Riace, with vouchers bearing portraits of Gandhi, Martin Luther King or Che Guevara. When funds arrive, the shops send the vouchers to the local council for payment.While they wait for formalities to be completed, the refugees are gainfully occupied. The silence of the streets is broken by the hum of workshops helping them to acquire skills in dressmaking, joinery, pottery or glass-blowing, set up as part of an integration scheme funded by the regional government.Lubaba, who works at the glass factory, arrived here from Ethiopia three years ago after a long journey. From Libya she travelled to Lampedusa, then started another long trail through various Italian reception centres. Her journey ended in Riace, where she decided to stay. \"I have a home, enough to live on, I'm learning a trade, and my daughter was born here,\" she says.Around 6,000 refugees have passed through the village over the years. Many move on, but some of them stay and try to start their own craft or retail business.It is not easy, as we heard from an Afghan woman from Herat who left home with her two children when her husband died, finally opening a shop selling knitwear in the village. \"We make a living. In the winter it's OK, but selling woolly jumpers in the summer is a struggle,\" she explains, knitting as her daughter Faeze looks on.Faeze is in no doubt about her future here in Italy. Speaking Italian with a powerful Calabrian accent, she says she feels \"like the others at school\". More than 200 refugees like herself and her family have chosen to settle permanently in Riace.This story was originally published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Migrants bring new life to a village in southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-04-06T09:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The dramatic political changes of the Arab spring and the civil war in Libya have dominated British headlines for the last few months. Much less coverage, at least in the English-speaking press, has been given to the crisis closer to home, as thousands of Tunisians and Libyans fleeing north Africa arrived on Lampedusa, an Italian island seen by many as an entrance to Europe.Kept at the island's port, the refugees built themselves tents from plastic sheets and waited for the government to prepare its plans. The conditions at the camp have been severely criticised by NGOs \u2013 particularly M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res, the Red Cross, and Amnesty International \u2013 as a nightmare unfit for human existence. The migrants themselves have complained of being treated as animals. Last Thursday and Friday almost 2,000 refugees were transferred to Taranto in the southern region of Puglia, and the remaining 4,000 on the island are gradually being taken elsewhere. Last night, a boat carrying 200 refugees capsized off the coast of the island; 150 people are still missing.The reaction from Italy's leaders has been unequivocal: the refugees' presence is only temporary. Likening the crisis to a \"human tsunami\" engulfing the country, a tsunami made up of \"5,000 Tunisian citizens who are not particularly acceptable\", Silvio Berlusconi has offered deportation as the only resolution, promising to get the migrants out of the way and life on Lampedusa back to normal in a matter of days.This response should not come as a surprise. For the past two decades the political debate on immigration and asylum in Italy has been dominated by those equating the presence of foreigners to increased crime and insecurity, calling for the closing of Italy's borders, a stepping up of internal security measures and the deportation of undocumented migrants. In the current situation this discourse of security and expulsion has permeated the government's practice.This explains the Italian foreign minister's current attempt to find any willing takers on to which to pass the north African migrants. However, his hands are tied by European Union legislation, namely the Dublin convention of 1990, stating that applications for asylum in the EU must be processed in the country of arrival. So, despite the fact that many of the migrants are not even intending to remain in Italy, with thousands attempting to reach relatives in France, they are unable to cross the border until their applications have been processed.The Italian government faces a dilemma. Its goal is to get rid of the migrants without granting thousands of visas. But in order to pass migrants on to other EU member states, it must first grant asylum status and permission to reside in Italy. These are thousands of the very foreigners they have spent so long trying to keep out.The answer for the Berlusconi government is to send them back to Africa. However, in ensuring that the migrant's presence is temporary, the Berlusconi government has failed to ensure adequate levels of care in Italy. Indeed, although the arrival of the refugees has been called a humanitarian crisis, the response has had little of the \"humanitarian\" about it.Reinforcing the temporary nature of their presence, the migrants are to be housed in camps far removed from Italian society to await their deportation orders. But while NGOs complain about a shortage of drinking water, a lack of sanitation and poor sleeping arrangements, the interior minister Roberto Maroni promises increased surveillance, an increased police presence by 150%, a horse-back security force to patrol the camp perimeter, and other measures included in a \"security pact\" with regional government.This is not a humanitarian response. This is a military-security mission designed to ensure the foreigners are kept separate and sent away as quickly as possible. By concentrating on the expulsion of migrants through the use of public order and security measures, the very rights, freedoms and humanitarian assistance that Europe's leaders claim to be supporting in north Africa have been denied within Europe's borders. But with more refugees expected to leave Libya over the coming weeks, this should not just be seen as a problem for Rome but a challenge for Brussels, too.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 April 2011. The original said that the refugees were being kept at the island's port of Manduria. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Italy", "Refugees", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Italy is failing north Africa's refugees | Simon McMahon"},{"date": "2011-05-03T12:58:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "They call it the \"migrants' village\". On entering the square at Riace, perched on a hill near the coast at the far end of Calabria, in Italy, you soon understand why. The girls running around are from Ethiopia, Eritrea or Somalia. Their mothers watch from the dressmaking workshop up the street. A sign is marked \"Host Town\".At the other end of Italy the Tunisians who have landed on Lampedusa in recent weeks have met with hostility, but here the mayor, Domenico Luciano, told the government the locality was prepared to accommodate its share of the newcomers. About 40 other councils in the region have announced they are ready to follow the example set by Riace in July 1998.When a boat carrying 300 Kurds landed, local people immediately opened their doors, triggering a sudden change of outlook. The foreigners were a boon for the village with its dwindling population.At one point there were 2,500 inhabitants, but only a few hundred are still in the town. In 1972 the discovery off the coast of two fifth-century BC Greek sculptures \u2013 the Riace bronzes \u2013 turned into yet another disappointment. The statues were taken away to a museum in Reggio di Calabria, and with them the tourists who were supposed to flock here.Riace decided it would fill the gap left by the many migrants who had moved to Canada or Australia with incomers. \"There was once again some hope for the future, with a new sense of pulling together. People were leaving, the school had closed, there was a growing lack of basic services. We began to wonder if there was any point in planning public works, or even sustaining the village which was gradually emptying. But the new arrivals brought fresh hopes,\" Luciano says.Sitting in the cafe or shopping at the market, local people now view the situation as normal. \"The population has gone up again quite a lot, but I can tell you, the place was literally dead,\" said a local man.A neighbour endorsed this view, looking at children running along the narrow streets: \"For us, they are all grandchildren.\"A non-profit organisation looks out for empty homes and refurbishes them to accommodate refugees. While they wait for the grants given to asylum-seekers, which are subject to long delays, the migrants can use a local currency in Riace, with vouchers bearing portraits of Gandhi, Martin Luther King or Che Guevara. When funds arrive, the shops send the vouchers to the local council for payment.While they wait for formalities to be completed, the refugees are gainfully occupied. The silence of the streets is broken by the hum of workshops helping them to acquire skills in dressmaking, joinery, pottery or glass-blowing, set up as part of an integration scheme funded by the regional government.Lubaba, who works at the glass factory, arrived here from Ethiopia three years ago after a long journey. From Libya she travelled to Lampedusa, then started another long trail through various Italian reception centres. Her journey ended in Riace, where she decided to stay. \"I have a home, enough to live on, I'm learning a trade, and my daughter was born here,\" she says.Around 6,000 refugees have passed through the village over the years. Many move on, but some of them stay and try to start their own craft or retail business.It is not easy, as we heard from an Afghan woman from Herat who left home with her two children when her husband died, finally opening a shop selling knitwear in the village. \"We make a living. In the winter it's OK, but selling woolly jumpers in the summer is a struggle,\" she explains, knitting as her daughter Faeze looks on.Faeze is in no doubt about her future here in Italy. Speaking Italian with a powerful Calabrian accent, she says she feels \"like the others at school\". More than 200 refugees like herself and her family have chosen to settle permanently in Riace.This story was originally published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Migrants bring new life to a village in southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-04-19T07:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "How does the Italian government organise its public spending? The latest project from campaign group Open Spending gives us a unique insight.Open Spending is cataloguing the world's public spending by as many governments as they can get their hands on the data. Set up by the Open Knowledge Foundation, it's based on the project's Where Does My money Go? which breaks down UK public spending.The data, which you can see visualised here in Italian, breaks down the government's spending at the highest level, by subject and by region. You can see it on the Open Spending site with more options too. It was built by a small group of developers, journalists and civil servants in a hectic 48-hour sprintWhy Italy? It's partly inspired by a major open data initiative taking place today in the Italian parliament. Italian journalists, politicians, developers, designers, entrepreneurs, academics, and representatives from public bodies will debate the future of open government data in Italy. We're presenting there too (you can follow it on Twitter #da19) as is Jonathan Gray of the OKF. He says of this visualisation:There is a lot of interesting work going on in the Italian open data community at the moment. Organisations such as the Italian Open Government Association are doing a great job at pulling people together from different parts of the Italian government to make the case for open dataThe data itself comes from Italy's Regional Public Accounts (RPA) project and covers from 1996 to 2008.You can download it below. What can you do with it?\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet from CKANData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Government data", "Politics", "Italy", "World news", "Data visualisations"], "title": "Italy public spending: where does the money go?"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-04-06T09:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The dramatic political changes of the Arab spring and the civil war in Libya have dominated British headlines for the last few months. Much less coverage, at least in the English-speaking press, has been given to the crisis closer to home, as thousands of Tunisians and Libyans fleeing north Africa arrived on Lampedusa, an Italian island seen by many as an entrance to Europe.Kept at the island's port, the refugees built themselves tents from plastic sheets and waited for the government to prepare its plans. The conditions at the camp have been severely criticised by NGOs \u2013 particularly M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res, the Red Cross, and Amnesty International \u2013 as a nightmare unfit for human existence. The migrants themselves have complained of being treated as animals. Last Thursday and Friday almost 2,000 refugees were transferred to Taranto in the southern region of Puglia, and the remaining 4,000 on the island are gradually being taken elsewhere. Last night, a boat carrying 200 refugees capsized off the coast of the island; 150 people are still missing.The reaction from Italy's leaders has been unequivocal: the refugees' presence is only temporary. Likening the crisis to a \"human tsunami\" engulfing the country, a tsunami made up of \"5,000 Tunisian citizens who are not particularly acceptable\", Silvio Berlusconi has offered deportation as the only resolution, promising to get the migrants out of the way and life on Lampedusa back to normal in a matter of days.This response should not come as a surprise. For the past two decades the political debate on immigration and asylum in Italy has been dominated by those equating the presence of foreigners to increased crime and insecurity, calling for the closing of Italy's borders, a stepping up of internal security measures and the deportation of undocumented migrants. In the current situation this discourse of security and expulsion has permeated the government's practice.This explains the Italian foreign minister's current attempt to find any willing takers on to which to pass the north African migrants. However, his hands are tied by European Union legislation, namely the Dublin convention of 1990, stating that applications for asylum in the EU must be processed in the country of arrival. So, despite the fact that many of the migrants are not even intending to remain in Italy, with thousands attempting to reach relatives in France, they are unable to cross the border until their applications have been processed.The Italian government faces a dilemma. Its goal is to get rid of the migrants without granting thousands of visas. But in order to pass migrants on to other EU member states, it must first grant asylum status and permission to reside in Italy. These are thousands of the very foreigners they have spent so long trying to keep out.The answer for the Berlusconi government is to send them back to Africa. However, in ensuring that the migrant's presence is temporary, the Berlusconi government has failed to ensure adequate levels of care in Italy. Indeed, although the arrival of the refugees has been called a humanitarian crisis, the response has had little of the \"humanitarian\" about it.Reinforcing the temporary nature of their presence, the migrants are to be housed in camps far removed from Italian society to await their deportation orders. But while NGOs complain about a shortage of drinking water, a lack of sanitation and poor sleeping arrangements, the interior minister Roberto Maroni promises increased surveillance, an increased police presence by 150%, a horse-back security force to patrol the camp perimeter, and other measures included in a \"security pact\" with regional government.This is not a humanitarian response. This is a military-security mission designed to ensure the foreigners are kept separate and sent away as quickly as possible. By concentrating on the expulsion of migrants through the use of public order and security measures, the very rights, freedoms and humanitarian assistance that Europe's leaders claim to be supporting in north Africa have been denied within Europe's borders. But with more refugees expected to leave Libya over the coming weeks, this should not just be seen as a problem for Rome but a challenge for Brussels, too.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 April 2011. The original said that the refugees were being kept at the island's port of Manduria. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Italy", "Refugees", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Italy is failing north Africa's refugees | Simon McMahon"},{"date": "2011-05-03T12:58:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "They call it the \"migrants' village\". On entering the square at Riace, perched on a hill near the coast at the far end of Calabria, in Italy, you soon understand why. The girls running around are from Ethiopia, Eritrea or Somalia. Their mothers watch from the dressmaking workshop up the street. A sign is marked \"Host Town\".At the other end of Italy the Tunisians who have landed on Lampedusa in recent weeks have met with hostility, but here the mayor, Domenico Luciano, told the government the locality was prepared to accommodate its share of the newcomers. About 40 other councils in the region have announced they are ready to follow the example set by Riace in July 1998.When a boat carrying 300 Kurds landed, local people immediately opened their doors, triggering a sudden change of outlook. The foreigners were a boon for the village with its dwindling population.At one point there were 2,500 inhabitants, but only a few hundred are still in the town. In 1972 the discovery off the coast of two fifth-century BC Greek sculptures \u2013 the Riace bronzes \u2013 turned into yet another disappointment. The statues were taken away to a museum in Reggio di Calabria, and with them the tourists who were supposed to flock here.Riace decided it would fill the gap left by the many migrants who had moved to Canada or Australia with incomers. \"There was once again some hope for the future, with a new sense of pulling together. People were leaving, the school had closed, there was a growing lack of basic services. We began to wonder if there was any point in planning public works, or even sustaining the village which was gradually emptying. But the new arrivals brought fresh hopes,\" Luciano says.Sitting in the cafe or shopping at the market, local people now view the situation as normal. \"The population has gone up again quite a lot, but I can tell you, the place was literally dead,\" said a local man.A neighbour endorsed this view, looking at children running along the narrow streets: \"For us, they are all grandchildren.\"A non-profit organisation looks out for empty homes and refurbishes them to accommodate refugees. While they wait for the grants given to asylum-seekers, which are subject to long delays, the migrants can use a local currency in Riace, with vouchers bearing portraits of Gandhi, Martin Luther King or Che Guevara. When funds arrive, the shops send the vouchers to the local council for payment.While they wait for formalities to be completed, the refugees are gainfully occupied. The silence of the streets is broken by the hum of workshops helping them to acquire skills in dressmaking, joinery, pottery or glass-blowing, set up as part of an integration scheme funded by the regional government.Lubaba, who works at the glass factory, arrived here from Ethiopia three years ago after a long journey. From Libya she travelled to Lampedusa, then started another long trail through various Italian reception centres. Her journey ended in Riace, where she decided to stay. \"I have a home, enough to live on, I'm learning a trade, and my daughter was born here,\" she says.Around 6,000 refugees have passed through the village over the years. Many move on, but some of them stay and try to start their own craft or retail business.It is not easy, as we heard from an Afghan woman from Herat who left home with her two children when her husband died, finally opening a shop selling knitwear in the village. \"We make a living. In the winter it's OK, but selling woolly jumpers in the summer is a struggle,\" she explains, knitting as her daughter Faeze looks on.Faeze is in no doubt about her future here in Italy. Speaking Italian with a powerful Calabrian accent, she says she feels \"like the others at school\". More than 200 refugees like herself and her family have chosen to settle permanently in Riace.This story was originally published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Migrants bring new life to a village in southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-04-19T07:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "How does the Italian government organise its public spending? The latest project from campaign group Open Spending gives us a unique insight.Open Spending is cataloguing the world's public spending by as many governments as they can get their hands on the data. Set up by the Open Knowledge Foundation, it's based on the project's Where Does My money Go? which breaks down UK public spending.The data, which you can see visualised here in Italian, breaks down the government's spending at the highest level, by subject and by region. You can see it on the Open Spending site with more options too. It was built by a small group of developers, journalists and civil servants in a hectic 48-hour sprintWhy Italy? It's partly inspired by a major open data initiative taking place today in the Italian parliament. Italian journalists, politicians, developers, designers, entrepreneurs, academics, and representatives from public bodies will debate the future of open government data in Italy. We're presenting there too (you can follow it on Twitter #da19) as is Jonathan Gray of the OKF. He says of this visualisation:There is a lot of interesting work going on in the Italian open data community at the moment. Organisations such as the Italian Open Government Association are doing a great job at pulling people together from different parts of the Italian government to make the case for open dataThe data itself comes from Italy's Regional Public Accounts (RPA) project and covers from 1996 to 2008.You can download it below. What can you do with it?\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet from CKANData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Government data", "Politics", "Italy", "World news", "Data visualisations"], "title": "Italy public spending: where does the money go?"},{"date": "2011-06-24T16:11:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "An early rally prompted by positive news from Greece fizzled out by the close of trading, as worries about the state of Italy's banking system gripped the market and rekindled fears of contagion spreading through the Eurozone.Ratings agency Moody's started the trouble after saying it might downgrade a number of Italy's banks, in the wake of a recent cut in the country's sovereign debt rating. The comments prompted concerns that Italy's banks might fare poorly in the current round of European stress tests, whose results are due in mid-July. At the same time the market had to digest the close of a rights issue from UBI Banca, with talk of poor demand for the fundraising although this was later dismissed. So Italian banking shares fell sharply, with two banks, UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, briefly suspended from trading because of the volatility.The concerns soon spread elsewhere, with UK banking shares also coming under pressure. Lloyds Banking Group - where new chief executive Ant\u00f3nio Horta-Os\u00f3rio is due to unveil his strategic review next week - lost 1.875p to 43.395p, Royal Bank of Scotland fell 1.09p to 35.65p and Barclays dropped 6.05p to 237.3p. Calls from Bank of England governor Sir Mervyn King for UK institutions to give more information on their exposure to Europe also hit sentiment.So after the FTSE 100 touched 5768 on growing hopes of a bailout deal for Greece, it fell back to finish at 5697.72, a rise of just 23.34 points.Mining shares were among the main risers on global growth hopes, with BHP Billiton 56.5p better at 2300.5p and Antofagasta ahead 29p to \u00a312.66. Anglo American added 37p to \u00a328.55 after Goldman Sachs issued a buy recommendation following news of expansion plans at the Collahuasi mine in Chile, which is 44% owned by the company. Goldman said:Lower down the market, mining minnow Stratex International, which has operations in Turkey and east Africa, rose 10% to 8.675p after AngloGold Ashanti agreed to pay \u00a33m to take an 11.5% stake in the business. Stratex is also looking at a possible spin off of its African assets to maximise shareholder value. Analysts at Westhouse have put a target price of 13p on Stratex shares.Elsewhere kitchen supplier Howden Joinery Group added 1.2p to 104.3p after rival Homeform - the owner of Kitchens Direct - went into administration. Analyst Graham Brown at Evolution Securities said:Finally oil explorer Dominion Petroleum fell 1.22p to 3.78p after it announced plans to raise $55m - more than a half of its market capitalisation - to fund its development programme. The company also said it had turned down a number of all-share merger proposals, believing they undervalued the business and that a fundraising was a better way of increasing shareholder value. Analyst Charlie Sharp at Matrix said:", "tags": ["Business", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Barclays", "BHP Billiton", "Antofagasta", "Anglo American"], "title": "Italy worries send banks lower and bring FTSE 100 off its highs"},{"date": "2011-06-30T17:54:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It was the day the culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, announced that he fully intended to let Rupert Murdoch buy the rest of BSkyB. But first we heard from the Speaker. When the Duke of Edinburgh turned 90 the house sent its best wishes, and bizarrely the Speaker, the prime minister, the leader of the house and Ed Miliband had to turn up and find out what he thought.It's as if you sent a friend a birthday card, and were summoned to their house to be thanked. Or, as Mr Bercow put it, they had \"waited upon\" the duke. \"We were graciously received by His Royal Highness, who responded in these terms 'What the bloody hell are you doing here?' \"No, no, that was someone else's voice (mine, actually). All the duke actually said was that it had been a privilege to help the Queen.Then we came to Mr Hunt, who also had good tidings for someone important. None of this was a surprise and Labour MPs were deeply sceptical, since they suspect this is the payback for Murdoch's support for the Tories at the last election.Heavens, what a sceptical bunch they are. Mr Hunt explained at great length how he had followed all the rules, and proceeded by the letter of the law.He had acted quite independently and had taken independent advice from independent people. He had not consulted the prime minister, and had not spoken to either Rupert or James Murdoch.\"Aye, but he has,\" said a growly Labour voice, referring to Cameron's jolly social sessions with the News Corp bosses.Mr Hunt was therefore in the stance familiar for politicians of all parties: using one hand to give the rich and powerful what they want, and the other hand to pat himself on the back. It is both difficult and ungainly.Tom Watson, the Labour MP who has led the fight against Murdoch, poured a bucket full of cynical scorn over Mr Hunt's head. He spoke softly but angrily.News International had famously broken promises to the government. Murdoch's chief executive, Rebekah Brooks, admitted that her staff had made illegal payments to police officers. Reporters, already mired in the phone-hacking scandal, had been collaborating with convicted prisoners. They had even hacked the parents of the two little girls murdered in Soham. On top of that, the new company would be registered in Delaware.He made one slip, saying he expected Mr Hunt would get his reward. As Tories booed, we wondered what he meant. A knighthood? Envelopes stuffed with money? A free Sky box?Mr Hunt reminded us of his own integrity. Chris Bryant said that no other country in the world would allow so much media power in the hands of one company \u2013 which had tried to cover up its employees' crimes. \"Apart from Italy!\" yelled Kevin Brennan, and Mr Bryant agreed \u2013 yes, we were in the same boat as Italy.Barry Gardiner summed up Labour's fury: Mr Hunt was wrong, morally and politically. \"He is propping up a crumbling empire. Murdoch is the Gaddafi of News Corporation ...\" They really were cross.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Sky plc", "Sky plc", "Jeremy Hunt", "Politics", "Media", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "BSkyB ruling 'just like Italy' | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-04-06T10:09:25Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Up to 150 people are feared dead after a boat carrying migrants from north Africa to Italy capsized in stormy seas, according to the coastguard.The vessel, believed to have been transporting 200 people, sank at about 4am local time (3am BST) 40 miles south of the Italian island of Lampedusa. A total of 48 people were rescued, and 20 bodies have been recovered, Italy's Ansa news agency reported.Rescue boats and a police helicopter are searching the area, but efforts have been hampered by rough conditions and high winds. Coastguards say the chance of finding more survivors is diminishing, particularly as they are unlikely to have lifejackets. More than a dozen bodies have been spotted in the sea. \"We fear that many people may have died,\" a rescue official in Lampedusa said.The route to Lampedusa, less than 100 miles from the coast of Tunisia, has long been popular for those seeking a new life in Europe. The numbers involved have increased greatly since the collapse of the Tunisian government in mid-January. Almost 20,000 people, mostly young men from the country, have arrived on the island since the start of the year.This week a UN official said more than 400 migrants had died after two vessels that left Libya in late March disappeared en route to Italy.The influx of migrants into Lampedusa has seen thousands of new arrivals based temporarily in tent encampments, with many then moved elsewhere in the country on ferries chartered by the Italian government.On Tuesday the interior minister, Roberto Maroni, signed an agreement with the Tunisian government to try to halt the flow, promising aid, police co-operation and the possible compulsory repatriation of illegal immigrants.", "tags": ["Italy", "Tunisia", "Europe", "Protest", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Migrant boat capsizes near Italy"},{"date": "2011-05-25T23:48:44Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Seven experts responsible for evaluating the threat of natural disasters in Italy have been charged with manslaughter for allegedly failing to give sufficient warning about the devastating L'Aquila earthquake in 2009.Judge Giuseppe Romano Gargarella ordered the members of the Great Risks commission to go on trial in L'Aquila on 20 September.The judge said the defendants \"gave inexact, incomplete and contradictory information\" about whether smaller tremors in L'Aquila six months before the 6.3 magnitude quake on 6 April, which killed more than 300 people, should have been viewed as warning signs of the subsequent disaster.Defence lawyers condemned the charges, arguing that it was impossible to predict earthquakes. Prosecutors point to a memo issued after a commission meeting on 31 March 2009, which was called because of mounting concerns about the seismic activity in the Abruzzo region, in central Italy.The memo stated that it was \"improbable\" there would be a major quake, but the threat could not be discounted.Commission members also told the local media that it was impossible to predict quakes, adding that six months of low-magnitude tremors was not unusual in the highly seismic region and did not mean a major quake would follow.An interview with commission member Bernardo De Bernardis, of the national civil protection department, in which he rejects suggestions that the public should worry, is cited in the prosecutor's case.Asked whether residents should just sit back and relax with a glass of wine, he said, \"Absolutely, a Montepulciano doc [a Tuscan red wine]. This seems important.\"The charges filed by the prosecution contends that this assessment \"persuaded the victims to stay at home\", La Repubblica newspaper reported.The earthquake killed 308 people in and around L'Aquila, which was largely reduced to rubble. Thousands of survivors lived in tent camps or temporary housing for months.Defence lawyers contend that since quakes cannot be predicted, the accusations that the commission's scientists and civil protection experts should have warned that a major quake was imminent make no sense.\"As we all know, quakes aren't predictable,\" said Marcello Melandri, defence lawyer for defendant Enzo Boschi, a scientist who heads the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology.Melandri added that the panel \"never said, 'stay calm, there is no risk'\".Manslaughter charges for natural disasters are not unusual in Italy, but they have previously concerned breaches of building codes in areas at risk of quakes.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Italy earthquake experts charged with manslaughter"},{"date": "2011-05-13T18:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It promised to arouse discussion and create a bit of commotion, said a dispatch from the Italian agency, Ansa, on April 18.And, indeed, that is the way it seemed when Carmelo Abbate's book, Sex and the Vatican, was published last month. The book grew out of an investigation by the author, published last year by Panorama news magazine, into the double lives of some gay priests in Rome. But Sex and the Vatican goes much further.It looks at such taboo issues for the Roman Catholic church as the women who become priests' mistresses and the children they have (and those they abort). It details allegations of the rape of nuns by priests. And it concludes that large parts of the clergy are leading double lives because of the crushing burden placed on them by the Vatican's insistence that they lead lives of celibacy and chastity.Spicy stuff, I think you'll agree.The French edition shot to number 12 in Amazon.fr's non-fiction bestseller list as the initial print run sold out in under a week. Abbate was interviewed at length on one of France's prime-time current affairs programmes. There have been articles about him and his book in various French dailies. Now there is a television documentary in the making for French television, based on his disclosures.In Italy, by contrast, the publication of Sex and the Vatican has been met with a wall of embarrassed silence. It is as if it had never happened. Before writing this article, I did a search on the Factiva newspaper database to check my subjective impression.It indicated that, apart from Ansa's dispatch (and an extensive preview in Panorama), the only article on Sex and the Vatican in the Italian press appeared on 27 April in the Milan-based small-circulation financial daily, Finanza e Mercati. There will of course be those who regard Abbate's book as sensationalist muck-raking. But its merits and demerits have not even been discussed in Italy. This is disquieting for at least one reason and possibly two.It shows that, notwithstanding the collapse of Christian Democracy, Italy's public life continues to be influenced by the Catholic church in a way that is thoroughly unhealthy. The question, which will doubtless never be resolved, is whether the silence that has enveloped Sex and the Vatican is the result of self-censorship and a misplaced sense of respect on the part of Italian journalists, or direct intervention by the church hierarchy.If it is the latter, then Abbate's book is being dealt with in a way that exactly mirrors the main charge against the Catholic church in the sex abuse scandals of recent years: that instead of dealing with the causes of the problem, the church's leaders covered it up so they could pretend it did not exist. Priests and monks who were found to have abused (and, in many cases, raped) children or adolescents were shuffled off to other dioceses or communities; accusations were stifled and accusers were discredited, because the most important consideration was not to root out the rotten apples, but to protect the reputation of the farm they came from.Whatever the degree of church involvement in the media entombing of Sex and the Vatican, the hypocrisy it alleges is all of a piece with the blind eye that, for decades, was turned by bishops on priests who were known, or suspected, predators.Next week, the Vatican is to issue a new document for bishops, setting out how they should manage cases of sexual abuse. It is expected to deal with how to deal with victims, work with the civil authorities, protect children and train candidates for the priesthood. But all this will be of limited effectiveness if the underlying mindset of church leaders remains unchanged. And the story of Sex and the Vatican provides grounds for believing it is.", "tags": ["Italy", "Catholicism", "Vatican", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Books", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Italy shuts out Sex and the Vatican | John Hooper"},{"date": "2011-04-06T09:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The dramatic political changes of the Arab spring and the civil war in Libya have dominated British headlines for the last few months. Much less coverage, at least in the English-speaking press, has been given to the crisis closer to home, as thousands of Tunisians and Libyans fleeing north Africa arrived on Lampedusa, an Italian island seen by many as an entrance to Europe.Kept at the island's port, the refugees built themselves tents from plastic sheets and waited for the government to prepare its plans. The conditions at the camp have been severely criticised by NGOs \u2013 particularly M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res, the Red Cross, and Amnesty International \u2013 as a nightmare unfit for human existence. The migrants themselves have complained of being treated as animals. Last Thursday and Friday almost 2,000 refugees were transferred to Taranto in the southern region of Puglia, and the remaining 4,000 on the island are gradually being taken elsewhere. Last night, a boat carrying 200 refugees capsized off the coast of the island; 150 people are still missing.The reaction from Italy's leaders has been unequivocal: the refugees' presence is only temporary. Likening the crisis to a \"human tsunami\" engulfing the country, a tsunami made up of \"5,000 Tunisian citizens who are not particularly acceptable\", Silvio Berlusconi has offered deportation as the only resolution, promising to get the migrants out of the way and life on Lampedusa back to normal in a matter of days.This response should not come as a surprise. For the past two decades the political debate on immigration and asylum in Italy has been dominated by those equating the presence of foreigners to increased crime and insecurity, calling for the closing of Italy's borders, a stepping up of internal security measures and the deportation of undocumented migrants. In the current situation this discourse of security and expulsion has permeated the government's practice.This explains the Italian foreign minister's current attempt to find any willing takers on to which to pass the north African migrants. However, his hands are tied by European Union legislation, namely the Dublin convention of 1990, stating that applications for asylum in the EU must be processed in the country of arrival. So, despite the fact that many of the migrants are not even intending to remain in Italy, with thousands attempting to reach relatives in France, they are unable to cross the border until their applications have been processed.The Italian government faces a dilemma. Its goal is to get rid of the migrants without granting thousands of visas. But in order to pass migrants on to other EU member states, it must first grant asylum status and permission to reside in Italy. These are thousands of the very foreigners they have spent so long trying to keep out.The answer for the Berlusconi government is to send them back to Africa. However, in ensuring that the migrant's presence is temporary, the Berlusconi government has failed to ensure adequate levels of care in Italy. Indeed, although the arrival of the refugees has been called a humanitarian crisis, the response has had little of the \"humanitarian\" about it.Reinforcing the temporary nature of their presence, the migrants are to be housed in camps far removed from Italian society to await their deportation orders. But while NGOs complain about a shortage of drinking water, a lack of sanitation and poor sleeping arrangements, the interior minister Roberto Maroni promises increased surveillance, an increased police presence by 150%, a horse-back security force to patrol the camp perimeter, and other measures included in a \"security pact\" with regional government.This is not a humanitarian response. This is a military-security mission designed to ensure the foreigners are kept separate and sent away as quickly as possible. By concentrating on the expulsion of migrants through the use of public order and security measures, the very rights, freedoms and humanitarian assistance that Europe's leaders claim to be supporting in north Africa have been denied within Europe's borders. But with more refugees expected to leave Libya over the coming weeks, this should not just be seen as a problem for Rome but a challenge for Brussels, too.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 April 2011. The original said that the refugees were being kept at the island's port of Manduria. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Italy", "Refugees", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Italy is failing north Africa's refugees | Simon McMahon"},{"date": "2011-05-03T12:58:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "They call it the \"migrants' village\". On entering the square at Riace, perched on a hill near the coast at the far end of Calabria, in Italy, you soon understand why. The girls running around are from Ethiopia, Eritrea or Somalia. Their mothers watch from the dressmaking workshop up the street. A sign is marked \"Host Town\".At the other end of Italy the Tunisians who have landed on Lampedusa in recent weeks have met with hostility, but here the mayor, Domenico Luciano, told the government the locality was prepared to accommodate its share of the newcomers. About 40 other councils in the region have announced they are ready to follow the example set by Riace in July 1998.When a boat carrying 300 Kurds landed, local people immediately opened their doors, triggering a sudden change of outlook. The foreigners were a boon for the village with its dwindling population.At one point there were 2,500 inhabitants, but only a few hundred are still in the town. In 1972 the discovery off the coast of two fifth-century BC Greek sculptures \u2013 the Riace bronzes \u2013 turned into yet another disappointment. The statues were taken away to a museum in Reggio di Calabria, and with them the tourists who were supposed to flock here.Riace decided it would fill the gap left by the many migrants who had moved to Canada or Australia with incomers. \"There was once again some hope for the future, with a new sense of pulling together. People were leaving, the school had closed, there was a growing lack of basic services. We began to wonder if there was any point in planning public works, or even sustaining the village which was gradually emptying. But the new arrivals brought fresh hopes,\" Luciano says.Sitting in the cafe or shopping at the market, local people now view the situation as normal. \"The population has gone up again quite a lot, but I can tell you, the place was literally dead,\" said a local man.A neighbour endorsed this view, looking at children running along the narrow streets: \"For us, they are all grandchildren.\"A non-profit organisation looks out for empty homes and refurbishes them to accommodate refugees. While they wait for the grants given to asylum-seekers, which are subject to long delays, the migrants can use a local currency in Riace, with vouchers bearing portraits of Gandhi, Martin Luther King or Che Guevara. When funds arrive, the shops send the vouchers to the local council for payment.While they wait for formalities to be completed, the refugees are gainfully occupied. The silence of the streets is broken by the hum of workshops helping them to acquire skills in dressmaking, joinery, pottery or glass-blowing, set up as part of an integration scheme funded by the regional government.Lubaba, who works at the glass factory, arrived here from Ethiopia three years ago after a long journey. From Libya she travelled to Lampedusa, then started another long trail through various Italian reception centres. Her journey ended in Riace, where she decided to stay. \"I have a home, enough to live on, I'm learning a trade, and my daughter was born here,\" she says.Around 6,000 refugees have passed through the village over the years. Many move on, but some of them stay and try to start their own craft or retail business.It is not easy, as we heard from an Afghan woman from Herat who left home with her two children when her husband died, finally opening a shop selling knitwear in the village. \"We make a living. In the winter it's OK, but selling woolly jumpers in the summer is a struggle,\" she explains, knitting as her daughter Faeze looks on.Faeze is in no doubt about her future here in Italy. Speaking Italian with a powerful Calabrian accent, she says she feels \"like the others at school\". More than 200 refugees like herself and her family have chosen to settle permanently in Riace.This story was originally published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Migrants bring new life to a village in southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-04-19T07:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "How does the Italian government organise its public spending? The latest project from campaign group Open Spending gives us a unique insight.Open Spending is cataloguing the world's public spending by as many governments as they can get their hands on the data. Set up by the Open Knowledge Foundation, it's based on the project's Where Does My money Go? which breaks down UK public spending.The data, which you can see visualised here in Italian, breaks down the government's spending at the highest level, by subject and by region. You can see it on the Open Spending site with more options too. It was built by a small group of developers, journalists and civil servants in a hectic 48-hour sprintWhy Italy? It's partly inspired by a major open data initiative taking place today in the Italian parliament. Italian journalists, politicians, developers, designers, entrepreneurs, academics, and representatives from public bodies will debate the future of open government data in Italy. We're presenting there too (you can follow it on Twitter #da19) as is Jonathan Gray of the OKF. He says of this visualisation:There is a lot of interesting work going on in the Italian open data community at the moment. Organisations such as the Italian Open Government Association are doing a great job at pulling people together from different parts of the Italian government to make the case for open dataThe data itself comes from Italy's Regional Public Accounts (RPA) project and covers from 1996 to 2008.You can download it below. What can you do with it?\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet from CKANData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Government data", "Politics", "Italy", "World news", "Data visualisations"], "title": "Italy public spending: where does the money go?"},{"date": "2011-06-24T16:11:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "An early rally prompted by positive news from Greece fizzled out by the close of trading, as worries about the state of Italy's banking system gripped the market and rekindled fears of contagion spreading through the Eurozone.Ratings agency Moody's started the trouble after saying it might downgrade a number of Italy's banks, in the wake of a recent cut in the country's sovereign debt rating. The comments prompted concerns that Italy's banks might fare poorly in the current round of European stress tests, whose results are due in mid-July. At the same time the market had to digest the close of a rights issue from UBI Banca, with talk of poor demand for the fundraising although this was later dismissed. So Italian banking shares fell sharply, with two banks, UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, briefly suspended from trading because of the volatility.The concerns soon spread elsewhere, with UK banking shares also coming under pressure. Lloyds Banking Group - where new chief executive Ant\u00f3nio Horta-Os\u00f3rio is due to unveil his strategic review next week - lost 1.875p to 43.395p, Royal Bank of Scotland fell 1.09p to 35.65p and Barclays dropped 6.05p to 237.3p. Calls from Bank of England governor Sir Mervyn King for UK institutions to give more information on their exposure to Europe also hit sentiment.So after the FTSE 100 touched 5768 on growing hopes of a bailout deal for Greece, it fell back to finish at 5697.72, a rise of just 23.34 points.Mining shares were among the main risers on global growth hopes, with BHP Billiton 56.5p better at 2300.5p and Antofagasta ahead 29p to \u00a312.66. Anglo American added 37p to \u00a328.55 after Goldman Sachs issued a buy recommendation following news of expansion plans at the Collahuasi mine in Chile, which is 44% owned by the company. Goldman said:Lower down the market, mining minnow Stratex International, which has operations in Turkey and east Africa, rose 10% to 8.675p after AngloGold Ashanti agreed to pay \u00a33m to take an 11.5% stake in the business. Stratex is also looking at a possible spin off of its African assets to maximise shareholder value. Analysts at Westhouse have put a target price of 13p on Stratex shares.Elsewhere kitchen supplier Howden Joinery Group added 1.2p to 104.3p after rival Homeform - the owner of Kitchens Direct - went into administration. Analyst Graham Brown at Evolution Securities said:Finally oil explorer Dominion Petroleum fell 1.22p to 3.78p after it announced plans to raise $55m - more than a half of its market capitalisation - to fund its development programme. The company also said it had turned down a number of all-share merger proposals, believing they undervalued the business and that a fundraising was a better way of increasing shareholder value. Analyst Charlie Sharp at Matrix said:", "tags": ["Business", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Barclays", "BHP Billiton", "Antofagasta", "Anglo American"], "title": "Italy worries send banks lower and bring FTSE 100 off its highs"},{"date": "2011-06-19T16:43:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The threat of a new crisis on the eurozone's southern flank loomed on Sunday as a crucial ally of Silvio Berlusconi demanded that the government cut taxes, despite the serious implications that this would have on Italy's public finances.Umberto Bossi, the Northern League leader and arbiter of the prime minister's fate, brushed aside concerns that Italy could go the way of Greece when he told cheering supporters in Pontida that the tax burden in Italy had gone \"beyond all limits\".Bossi, Berlusconi's partner in Italy's rightwing coalition government, has been under huge pressure from his party's rank and file since local elections last month showed a sharp fall in the league's support. Tax cuts would offer both men the promise of regaining their lost popularity, but could widen the budget deficit of a country that has the eurozone's biggest public debt.On Friday, the rating agency Moody's warned it could downgrade Italy's credit ratings because of concerns that the crisis in Greece could increase eurozone interest rates and derail Italy's already precarious economic recovery.The finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, has been urging prudence on his cabinet colleagues and was reported by La Repubblica to be planning a mini-budget that would include deficit reduction measures totalling \u20ac40m (\u00a335m).But Bossi told his supporters: \"Tremonti says that we risk ending up like Greece. But, whatever, something has to be done to bring down taxes.\"He stopped well short of threatening to bring down the government in a confidence vote on Wednesday because that would force a general election \"at a moment favourable to the left\". But he said Berlusconi's leadership of the Italian right would be at stake after the next general election in 2013 \"if he does not do certain things\".Largely thanks to Tremonti's insistence on fiscal rigour, Italy has remained comparatively unscathed by the financial hurricane blowing through southern Europe. Italy's budget deficit this year is expected to be a modest 4% and investors demand a return of less than 5% for 10-year loans to the Italian treasury; in Greece, the rate is above 17%.But Italy's public debt is expected to top 120% of GDP by the end of the year, so any increase in the cost of borrowing could swiftly make it impossible for the Rome government to contain its budget deficit, especially as Italy's low economic growth is holding down tax revenues.Tremonti has tried to square the circle by rooting out tax evasion, but the clampdown is among the chief grouses of Bossi's mainly lower middle-class following of small business owners and self-employed workers.A poll on Saturday indicated 55% of the league's voters disapproved of the government's performance. Many would like to see Bossi withdraw from the coalition and some would like him to lead the north out of Italy. Seven times during his speech, he was interrupted by chants of \"Secession. Secession.\"Bossi told them Tremonti had done \"shameful things\" and repeated a demand for some government ministries to be moved to the north.\"The industry ministry shouldn't be in Rome. It ought to be in the north, where the factories are,\" he said, adding that he and another Northern League minister had signed decrees for the transfer of their departments to Monza \"but then Berlusconi shat on it\".The League's plan could yet cause the government serious problems. The regional governor of Campania in the south promptly demanded the transfer of an equivalent number of ministries to Naples. His counterpart in Lazio, the region around Rome, announced a petition to keep the government in the capital. And the mayor of Rome, Gianni Alemanno, warned of a \"hard, serious\" tussle.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Euro", "Silvio Berlusconi", "European Union", "Euro", "Currencies", "Umberto Bossi"], "title": "Italy: Silvio Berlusconi pressed to make tax cuts by rightwing partner"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-07-14T12:38:27Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bond investors on Thursday sent a warning to Italy that it was not yet out of the financial woods.The first auction of longer-term bonds since Italy began feeling the heat from the financial wildfire on the eurozone periphery succeeded in attracting enough buyers. But they demanded far higher returns than had been expected, including an all-time record of 5.9% for holding 15-year paper.As the outcome became known, the stock market briskly reversed course. Having risen 0.3% before the auction, the FTSE MIB index of blue chip shares fell 1.7% before recovering some of the lost ground. Banks and insurance companies \u2013 big holders of government debt \u2013 took the brunt of the losses.In the bond markets, the premium that investors demanded for holding Italian, rather than safe-haven German, benchmark paper shot back through the 3 percentage point barrier.The warning shot from investors came as members of the upper house of parliament prepared to vote on a four-year austerity budget which the government is hoping to rush through by the weekend. In a further effort to reassure the markets, more deficit-cutting measures have been included in the past 48 hours, including pension cuts and additional health charges. The package also now contains pledges of privatisation and deregulation.Silvio Berlusconi's conservative government has a majority in both houses. But in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, where it has only a slim edge, the prime minister has turned Friday's division into a confidence vote. That means any of his followers considering a rebellion will know it could bring down the government.The opposition is due to vote against the package. But in the national interest it has agreed not to present amendments.The bond auction pushed the gross yield on Italy's five-year treasury bonds to 4.93%, the highest level since June 2008 and a full percentage point above the level at the last offering. But demand exceeded supply by 100% for the five-year bonds, and by 50% for the 15-year bonds.", "tags": ["Bonds", "Italy", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Austerity"], "title": "Bond investors give Italy warning shot"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-07-14T12:38:27Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bond investors on Thursday sent a warning to Italy that it was not yet out of the financial woods.The first auction of longer-term bonds since Italy began feeling the heat from the financial wildfire on the eurozone periphery succeeded in attracting enough buyers. But they demanded far higher returns than had been expected, including an all-time record of 5.9% for holding 15-year paper.As the outcome became known, the stock market briskly reversed course. Having risen 0.3% before the auction, the FTSE MIB index of blue chip shares fell 1.7% before recovering some of the lost ground. Banks and insurance companies \u2013 big holders of government debt \u2013 took the brunt of the losses.In the bond markets, the premium that investors demanded for holding Italian, rather than safe-haven German, benchmark paper shot back through the 3 percentage point barrier.The warning shot from investors came as members of the upper house of parliament prepared to vote on a four-year austerity budget which the government is hoping to rush through by the weekend. In a further effort to reassure the markets, more deficit-cutting measures have been included in the past 48 hours, including pension cuts and additional health charges. The package also now contains pledges of privatisation and deregulation.Silvio Berlusconi's conservative government has a majority in both houses. But in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, where it has only a slim edge, the prime minister has turned Friday's division into a confidence vote. That means any of his followers considering a rebellion will know it could bring down the government.The opposition is due to vote against the package. But in the national interest it has agreed not to present amendments.The bond auction pushed the gross yield on Italy's five-year treasury bonds to 4.93%, the highest level since June 2008 and a full percentage point above the level at the last offering. But demand exceeded supply by 100% for the five-year bonds, and by 50% for the 15-year bonds.", "tags": ["Bonds", "Italy", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Austerity"], "title": "Bond investors give Italy warning shot"},{"date": "2011-07-13T19:59:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy on Wednesday opened the way for a new wave of privatisations as part of its efforts to calm the markets after a three-day run on its shares and bonds.Measures to encourage the sale of local authority assets and of state holdings in big corporations were among new provisions inserted at the last minute into a \u20ac40bn (\u00a335bn) austerity plan aiming at balancing Italy's public accounts by 2014.The finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, had earlier reacted to concerns about the possibility of Rome being dragged into the eurozone debt crisis with a promise to impose another round of spending cuts by Friday.His assurance that opposition parties would agree within a matter of days to rally round further austerity measures immediately calmed jittery investors and revealed yet again the respect that Silvio Berlusconi's finance chief has retained with investors during the crisis.The Milan stock exchange jumped 1.4% to 18765 points following his comments, while the 10-year yield dropped to 5.45%, after touching 6% a day earlier.But an attempt to extend liberalisation to the legal professions was watered down when it ran into a determined revolt by lawyers and notaries in Berlusconi's governing Freedom People party. Around 80 threatened to bring down the government rather than agree to the abolition of the \"ordini\", or professional associations, that limit competition and hold up fees.The liberalising measures appeared, paradoxically, to have been inserted at the insistence of Italy's centre-left opposition. The Democratic party, the biggest opposition group, is more disposed to de-regulation than Berlusconi's, whose membership includes many small business people who fear increased competition.The government has made Friday evening's crucial division in the lower house of parliament, where it has a narrow majority, a vote of confidence. So, were it to lose, it would have to resign.With markets still jittery, the former central bank governor and president-designate of the ECB, Mario Draghi, warned the government that, to meet its target, it would have to raise taxes or make further spending cuts. The ratings agency Fitch nevertheless gave the plan a vote of confidence, saying it expected the government to succeed in cutting the deficit.It said the market turmoil reflected \"a crisis of market confidence in the European policy response to the eurozone debt crisis, rather than deteriorating sovereign credit fundamentals\". Germany added to the turmoil after its finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, refused to support a leaders' summit this weekend to agree plans for a second Greek rescue.Sch\u00e4uble wants to give himself the maximum time possible to pursue his plans for greater private investor involvement in the rescue, which could delay matters until September.The European Central Bank and several EU leaders have argued that forcing private investors to take a cut in the value of their Greek loans would trigger defaults and a mass investor withdrawal from Italy, Spain and possibly Belgium.Stress tests on EU banks on Friday have already been called a whitewash by critics, who argue they are designed to disguise the depleted resources of Europe's financial institutions.German state-owned lender Helaba was expected to be one of about 15 banks failed by the European Banking Authority, before it pulled out on Wednesday. It accused the EBA of ignoring complex derivatives as collateral in determining its capital base.Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny, said a definitive plan on Greece was needed quickly. Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Ireland's credit rating to junk late on Tuesday.Kenny and others have warned that unless a summit is held on Friday it could have a strong negative impact on financial markets.Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European council, has informed ambassadors he intends to hold the summit on Friday evening, and most of the 17 eurozone member states back the decision.\"Markets reacted very badly after eurozone finance ministers could not reach an agreement,\" an EU diplomat said, referring to a finance ministers' meeting on Monday. \"If they cannot agree, we take the fight to the highest level. People are working on a set of conclusions to be agreed.\"A senior EU official said the Germans were furious about being \"backed into a corner\" and were ready to veto a deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Privatisation", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy hopes privatisations will calm markets"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-07-14T12:38:27Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bond investors on Thursday sent a warning to Italy that it was not yet out of the financial woods.The first auction of longer-term bonds since Italy began feeling the heat from the financial wildfire on the eurozone periphery succeeded in attracting enough buyers. But they demanded far higher returns than had been expected, including an all-time record of 5.9% for holding 15-year paper.As the outcome became known, the stock market briskly reversed course. Having risen 0.3% before the auction, the FTSE MIB index of blue chip shares fell 1.7% before recovering some of the lost ground. Banks and insurance companies \u2013 big holders of government debt \u2013 took the brunt of the losses.In the bond markets, the premium that investors demanded for holding Italian, rather than safe-haven German, benchmark paper shot back through the 3 percentage point barrier.The warning shot from investors came as members of the upper house of parliament prepared to vote on a four-year austerity budget which the government is hoping to rush through by the weekend. In a further effort to reassure the markets, more deficit-cutting measures have been included in the past 48 hours, including pension cuts and additional health charges. The package also now contains pledges of privatisation and deregulation.Silvio Berlusconi's conservative government has a majority in both houses. But in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, where it has only a slim edge, the prime minister has turned Friday's division into a confidence vote. That means any of his followers considering a rebellion will know it could bring down the government.The opposition is due to vote against the package. But in the national interest it has agreed not to present amendments.The bond auction pushed the gross yield on Italy's five-year treasury bonds to 4.93%, the highest level since June 2008 and a full percentage point above the level at the last offering. But demand exceeded supply by 100% for the five-year bonds, and by 50% for the 15-year bonds.", "tags": ["Bonds", "Italy", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Austerity"], "title": "Bond investors give Italy warning shot"},{"date": "2011-07-13T19:59:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy on Wednesday opened the way for a new wave of privatisations as part of its efforts to calm the markets after a three-day run on its shares and bonds.Measures to encourage the sale of local authority assets and of state holdings in big corporations were among new provisions inserted at the last minute into a \u20ac40bn (\u00a335bn) austerity plan aiming at balancing Italy's public accounts by 2014.The finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, had earlier reacted to concerns about the possibility of Rome being dragged into the eurozone debt crisis with a promise to impose another round of spending cuts by Friday.His assurance that opposition parties would agree within a matter of days to rally round further austerity measures immediately calmed jittery investors and revealed yet again the respect that Silvio Berlusconi's finance chief has retained with investors during the crisis.The Milan stock exchange jumped 1.4% to 18765 points following his comments, while the 10-year yield dropped to 5.45%, after touching 6% a day earlier.But an attempt to extend liberalisation to the legal professions was watered down when it ran into a determined revolt by lawyers and notaries in Berlusconi's governing Freedom People party. Around 80 threatened to bring down the government rather than agree to the abolition of the \"ordini\", or professional associations, that limit competition and hold up fees.The liberalising measures appeared, paradoxically, to have been inserted at the insistence of Italy's centre-left opposition. The Democratic party, the biggest opposition group, is more disposed to de-regulation than Berlusconi's, whose membership includes many small business people who fear increased competition.The government has made Friday evening's crucial division in the lower house of parliament, where it has a narrow majority, a vote of confidence. So, were it to lose, it would have to resign.With markets still jittery, the former central bank governor and president-designate of the ECB, Mario Draghi, warned the government that, to meet its target, it would have to raise taxes or make further spending cuts. The ratings agency Fitch nevertheless gave the plan a vote of confidence, saying it expected the government to succeed in cutting the deficit.It said the market turmoil reflected \"a crisis of market confidence in the European policy response to the eurozone debt crisis, rather than deteriorating sovereign credit fundamentals\". Germany added to the turmoil after its finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, refused to support a leaders' summit this weekend to agree plans for a second Greek rescue.Sch\u00e4uble wants to give himself the maximum time possible to pursue his plans for greater private investor involvement in the rescue, which could delay matters until September.The European Central Bank and several EU leaders have argued that forcing private investors to take a cut in the value of their Greek loans would trigger defaults and a mass investor withdrawal from Italy, Spain and possibly Belgium.Stress tests on EU banks on Friday have already been called a whitewash by critics, who argue they are designed to disguise the depleted resources of Europe's financial institutions.German state-owned lender Helaba was expected to be one of about 15 banks failed by the European Banking Authority, before it pulled out on Wednesday. It accused the EBA of ignoring complex derivatives as collateral in determining its capital base.Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny, said a definitive plan on Greece was needed quickly. Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Ireland's credit rating to junk late on Tuesday.Kenny and others have warned that unless a summit is held on Friday it could have a strong negative impact on financial markets.Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European council, has informed ambassadors he intends to hold the summit on Friday evening, and most of the 17 eurozone member states back the decision.\"Markets reacted very badly after eurozone finance ministers could not reach an agreement,\" an EU diplomat said, referring to a finance ministers' meeting on Monday. \"If they cannot agree, we take the fight to the highest level. People are working on a set of conclusions to be agreed.\"A senior EU official said the Germans were furious about being \"backed into a corner\" and were ready to veto a deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Privatisation", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy hopes privatisations will calm markets"},{"date": "2011-07-11T15:41:49Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy was firmly in the eye of the eurozone debt storm on Monday as it became the target of potentially self-fulfilling fears that it will be unable to pay off its huge public debts.In an attempt to stem selling surges in the bond and equity markets, Italy's finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, promised to \"send the markets a strong signal\". He said a package of measures to reduce the budget deficit would be \"armour-plated\" and approved by parliament within a week: \"Something that has never happened in the history of Italy.\"The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said she had discussed the situation on Sunday with Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. She told a press conference in Berlin that Italy had to agree \"on a budget that meets the need for frugality and consolidation\", adding: \"I have full confidence the Italian government will pass exactly this kind of budget.\"Concern over the effectiveness of the package was central to the sell-off of Italian shares and bonds that began on Friday. But neither Tremonti's nor Merkel's words managed to stem the panic. The yield on benchmark 10-year government bonds soared to 5.565% \u2013 the highest since May 2001 \u2013 which sharply increases the state's borrowing costs. At one point, the spread between the Italian benchmark bond and its German equivalent reached a record 290 basis points.The concern over bonds infected the stock market where Italian banks, leading holders of their country's debt, were particularly badly hit. Intesa SanPaolo's shares lost more than 7.5% as the FTSE MIB index of Milan bourse blue-chips slid 3.9% by the close of business.One of the concerns driving markets was that the return on Italy's bonds could reach a level that was unsustainable for its treasury. The rise in yields, in effect the interest rate Italy must pay to borrow, comes at a particularly awkward moment: Bloomberg estimated last week that between now and the end of 2012, the government will have to refinance 26% of its public debt.The Italian state's accumulated borrowing has risen to almost 120% of GDP \u2013 the second highest level in the EU after Greece. As part of a programme for its reduction, Tremonti last week unveiled a four-year, \u20ac40bn-plus (\u00a332bn) package of deficit-cutting measures.But, with Berlusconi's coalition partners in the Northern League clamouring for tax cuts to buy back the government's lost popularity, all but \u20ac6bn of the adjustments were postponed. Fears that the package could be watered down \u2013 or that Tremonti may not be around to see them through \u2013 contributed to a growing sense of unease among investors.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Italy", "Financial crisis", "Europe", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy promises to rush through budget cuts as bond markets reflect bailout fears"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-07-14T12:38:27Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bond investors on Thursday sent a warning to Italy that it was not yet out of the financial woods.The first auction of longer-term bonds since Italy began feeling the heat from the financial wildfire on the eurozone periphery succeeded in attracting enough buyers. But they demanded far higher returns than had been expected, including an all-time record of 5.9% for holding 15-year paper.As the outcome became known, the stock market briskly reversed course. Having risen 0.3% before the auction, the FTSE MIB index of blue chip shares fell 1.7% before recovering some of the lost ground. Banks and insurance companies \u2013 big holders of government debt \u2013 took the brunt of the losses.In the bond markets, the premium that investors demanded for holding Italian, rather than safe-haven German, benchmark paper shot back through the 3 percentage point barrier.The warning shot from investors came as members of the upper house of parliament prepared to vote on a four-year austerity budget which the government is hoping to rush through by the weekend. In a further effort to reassure the markets, more deficit-cutting measures have been included in the past 48 hours, including pension cuts and additional health charges. The package also now contains pledges of privatisation and deregulation.Silvio Berlusconi's conservative government has a majority in both houses. But in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, where it has only a slim edge, the prime minister has turned Friday's division into a confidence vote. That means any of his followers considering a rebellion will know it could bring down the government.The opposition is due to vote against the package. But in the national interest it has agreed not to present amendments.The bond auction pushed the gross yield on Italy's five-year treasury bonds to 4.93%, the highest level since June 2008 and a full percentage point above the level at the last offering. But demand exceeded supply by 100% for the five-year bonds, and by 50% for the 15-year bonds.", "tags": ["Bonds", "Italy", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Austerity"], "title": "Bond investors give Italy warning shot"},{"date": "2011-07-13T19:59:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy on Wednesday opened the way for a new wave of privatisations as part of its efforts to calm the markets after a three-day run on its shares and bonds.Measures to encourage the sale of local authority assets and of state holdings in big corporations were among new provisions inserted at the last minute into a \u20ac40bn (\u00a335bn) austerity plan aiming at balancing Italy's public accounts by 2014.The finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, had earlier reacted to concerns about the possibility of Rome being dragged into the eurozone debt crisis with a promise to impose another round of spending cuts by Friday.His assurance that opposition parties would agree within a matter of days to rally round further austerity measures immediately calmed jittery investors and revealed yet again the respect that Silvio Berlusconi's finance chief has retained with investors during the crisis.The Milan stock exchange jumped 1.4% to 18765 points following his comments, while the 10-year yield dropped to 5.45%, after touching 6% a day earlier.But an attempt to extend liberalisation to the legal professions was watered down when it ran into a determined revolt by lawyers and notaries in Berlusconi's governing Freedom People party. Around 80 threatened to bring down the government rather than agree to the abolition of the \"ordini\", or professional associations, that limit competition and hold up fees.The liberalising measures appeared, paradoxically, to have been inserted at the insistence of Italy's centre-left opposition. The Democratic party, the biggest opposition group, is more disposed to de-regulation than Berlusconi's, whose membership includes many small business people who fear increased competition.The government has made Friday evening's crucial division in the lower house of parliament, where it has a narrow majority, a vote of confidence. So, were it to lose, it would have to resign.With markets still jittery, the former central bank governor and president-designate of the ECB, Mario Draghi, warned the government that, to meet its target, it would have to raise taxes or make further spending cuts. The ratings agency Fitch nevertheless gave the plan a vote of confidence, saying it expected the government to succeed in cutting the deficit.It said the market turmoil reflected \"a crisis of market confidence in the European policy response to the eurozone debt crisis, rather than deteriorating sovereign credit fundamentals\". Germany added to the turmoil after its finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, refused to support a leaders' summit this weekend to agree plans for a second Greek rescue.Sch\u00e4uble wants to give himself the maximum time possible to pursue his plans for greater private investor involvement in the rescue, which could delay matters until September.The European Central Bank and several EU leaders have argued that forcing private investors to take a cut in the value of their Greek loans would trigger defaults and a mass investor withdrawal from Italy, Spain and possibly Belgium.Stress tests on EU banks on Friday have already been called a whitewash by critics, who argue they are designed to disguise the depleted resources of Europe's financial institutions.German state-owned lender Helaba was expected to be one of about 15 banks failed by the European Banking Authority, before it pulled out on Wednesday. It accused the EBA of ignoring complex derivatives as collateral in determining its capital base.Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny, said a definitive plan on Greece was needed quickly. Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Ireland's credit rating to junk late on Tuesday.Kenny and others have warned that unless a summit is held on Friday it could have a strong negative impact on financial markets.Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European council, has informed ambassadors he intends to hold the summit on Friday evening, and most of the 17 eurozone member states back the decision.\"Markets reacted very badly after eurozone finance ministers could not reach an agreement,\" an EU diplomat said, referring to a finance ministers' meeting on Monday. \"If they cannot agree, we take the fight to the highest level. People are working on a set of conclusions to be agreed.\"A senior EU official said the Germans were furious about being \"backed into a corner\" and were ready to veto a deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Privatisation", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy hopes privatisations will calm markets"},{"date": "2011-07-11T15:41:49Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy was firmly in the eye of the eurozone debt storm on Monday as it became the target of potentially self-fulfilling fears that it will be unable to pay off its huge public debts.In an attempt to stem selling surges in the bond and equity markets, Italy's finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, promised to \"send the markets a strong signal\". He said a package of measures to reduce the budget deficit would be \"armour-plated\" and approved by parliament within a week: \"Something that has never happened in the history of Italy.\"The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said she had discussed the situation on Sunday with Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. She told a press conference in Berlin that Italy had to agree \"on a budget that meets the need for frugality and consolidation\", adding: \"I have full confidence the Italian government will pass exactly this kind of budget.\"Concern over the effectiveness of the package was central to the sell-off of Italian shares and bonds that began on Friday. But neither Tremonti's nor Merkel's words managed to stem the panic. The yield on benchmark 10-year government bonds soared to 5.565% \u2013 the highest since May 2001 \u2013 which sharply increases the state's borrowing costs. At one point, the spread between the Italian benchmark bond and its German equivalent reached a record 290 basis points.The concern over bonds infected the stock market where Italian banks, leading holders of their country's debt, were particularly badly hit. Intesa SanPaolo's shares lost more than 7.5% as the FTSE MIB index of Milan bourse blue-chips slid 3.9% by the close of business.One of the concerns driving markets was that the return on Italy's bonds could reach a level that was unsustainable for its treasury. The rise in yields, in effect the interest rate Italy must pay to borrow, comes at a particularly awkward moment: Bloomberg estimated last week that between now and the end of 2012, the government will have to refinance 26% of its public debt.The Italian state's accumulated borrowing has risen to almost 120% of GDP \u2013 the second highest level in the EU after Greece. As part of a programme for its reduction, Tremonti last week unveiled a four-year, \u20ac40bn-plus (\u00a332bn) package of deficit-cutting measures.But, with Berlusconi's coalition partners in the Northern League clamouring for tax cuts to buy back the government's lost popularity, all but \u20ac6bn of the adjustments were postponed. Fears that the package could be watered down \u2013 or that Tremonti may not be around to see them through \u2013 contributed to a growing sense of unease among investors.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Italy", "Financial crisis", "Europe", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy promises to rush through budget cuts as bond markets reflect bailout fears"},{"date": "2011-07-05T13:08:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "His government colleagues can't stand him and Silvio Berlusconi wishes he could do without his deficit-obsessed finance minister who won't allow him to spend the money he hasn't got. Many Italian members of parliament blame him for the failure of the right in recent municipal elections and referendums. But Giulio Tremonti, who presented a \u20ac43bn ($62bn) austerity plan last week to balance the budget by 2014, believes that he is indispensable and without him, Italy would rapidly join the Pigs (Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain).A former tax adviser, Giulio Tremonti, 63, has been finance minister in all four of Berlusconi's governments since 1994. Respected by the church as well as in business circles, and liked by Italians, he is the antithesis of his boss, and is known to tender his resignation at the slightest disagreement. Berlusconi, quite aware that Tremonti is his best asset on both the domestic and international front, refuses it each time.To achieve his ends, Tremonti threatened to leave his ministry once again. \"Do you want Italy to take the same road as Greece? If that's what you want, I'm leaving,\" was his reply to the complaints in his camp, notably by coalition Northern League MPs who would have preferred tax cuts. One minister even judged Tremonti's plan \"worthy of a psychiatrist\". Three meetings of senior government members were held before everyone finally agreed.In the end the ratings agencies, highly criticised by Tremonti, came to his rescue. By threatening to downgrade their ratings on Italy because of its massive budget deficit (120% of GDP) and poor growth (0.1% in the first quarter), Standard & Poor's and Moody's obliged Berlusconi and his allies to pass another painful austerity plan, following a \u20ac25bn one in 2010.Most of the \u20ac43bn budget savings will be spread over 2013 and 2014.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Business", "Euro"], "title": "Italy agrees to \u20ac43bn austerity plan"},{"date": "2011-09-05T17:01:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If things go as planned, little is going to happen on the streets of Italy on Tuesday. CGIL, Italy's largest union, has called a general strike for 6 September, which has gained support from most other union leaders. The target of the strike is the government's \u20ac45.5bn austerity plan, which is aimed at balancing Italy's budget by 2013 and calming market fears the country could default on its mounting debt.Austerity makeovers have been piling up in Italy as of late. In the last week, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition partners agreed to their third fiscal-reform plan of the summer. A government plan containing tough austerity measures, to be discussed by parliament next month, has been met with widespread criticism. Some \u20ac4bn of the \u20ac20bn of savings slated for 2012, and \u20ac12bn of the \u20ac25.5bn set for 2013 are to come through tax and welfare measures that are still waiting to be drawn up.The left-leaning CGIL union objects to the proposed public spending cuts and labour market and pension reforms: its main concern is that they will make it easier for employers to sack workers, and that they will raise the retirement age. The union would also like to see more attention paid to the creation of a \"wealth\" tax and putting into place rigorous measures to clamp down on rampant tax evasion in Italy, especially by the rich. Susanna Camusso, leader of the CGIL, says a general strike is the only way to get the government to change its plans. \"The government is irresponsible, not the strike,\" says Camusso.But not everyone agrees with her. In July, the government unveiled \u20ac48bn-worth of spending cuts in an effort to mend Italy's ailing finances. In this climate, and with growing public awareness that something must be done about the financial difficulties faced by the ordinary man in the street, many are questioning whether a general strike is really appropriate at this point in time.Many Italians question how effective the strike is going to be. Rome psychologist Gabriella Vaccher says holding a general strike now is useless: \"All it's going to do is take away \u20ac100 from the salaries of all those employees who are forced to strike.\" With the ongoing economic crisis, a more intelligent way of getting the message across could have been found. \"Instead, a major demonstration could have been organised on a Sunday when people do not work,\" she adds.The eight-hour stoppage will affect air traffic and train services as well as local transport. The industrial action is likely to cause severe disruptions, and clashes between protesters and security services cannot be excluded. Daniela Borghetto is a partner of Rome travel agent Ippocampo Viaggi. She insists that \"holding a general strike now is a farce\" because the government's budget plans are still unclear, and are likely to keep changing as the package is discussed in parliament. \"It would have been much better to wait and see what actually happens,\" she says.To my mind, a strike at this time could have been avoided and the money wasted could have gone to better use. The most important issue is that serious reforms have been discussed in this country for years, but never been implemented. They are now essential to improve the country's dismal growth. The big question many educated professionals continue to ask is just how the Italian economy will start growing again. So far, no politician or government minister has been forthcoming with that information.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Italy needs growth, not a general strike | Sabina Castelfranco"},{"date": "2011-09-06T15:00:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "24 years in 140 characters: Usually roll over to let New Zealand tickle their tummies, then put the frighteners on someone else \u2013 Scotland in 07. Never made last eight.World Cup record:1987: Pool Stages1991: Pool Stages1995: Pool Stages1999: Pool Stages2003: Pool Stages2007: Pool StagesRecord in 2011: P7 W2 L5Coach: Nick MallettCaptain: Sergio ParisseHow are they likely to get on? Who knows? Will Mallett be sent off in style or have his bosses shot Italy in the foot by not building on the Six Nations victory over France and giving the South African an extension to his contract?Key player: Whoever is given the job of kicking, the penalties the big forwards will undoubtedly earn \u2013 either Luciano Orquera or Mirco Bergamasco \u2013 will have a vital role to play. If he misses more than he kicks, they'll want to kick him.Commentator's kit: Italy kicked the first penalty in World Cup play, Oscar Collodo taking the three against New Zealand in the 1987 tournament's opening match. Unfortunately, the All Blacks went on to win 70-6.Martin Castrogiovanni, prop, age 29, caps 78Lorenzo Cittadini, prop, age 28, caps 6Andrea Lo Cicero, prop, age 35, caps 88Salvatore Perugini, prop, age 33, caps 80Tommaso D'Apice, hooker, age 23, caps 2Leonardo Ghiraldini, hooker, age 26, caps 38Fabio Ongaro, hooker, age 33, caps 77Marco Bortolami, second-row, age 31, caps 85Carlo Del Fava, second row, age 30, caps 53Quintin Geldenhuys, second-row, age 30, caps 22Cornelius Van Zyl, second-row, age 32, caps 2Robert Barbieri, flanker, age 27, caps 15Mauro Bergamasco, flanker, age 32, caps 85Paul Derbyshire, flanker, age 24, caps 12Alessandro Zanni, flanker, age 27, caps 54Sergio Parisse (c), No8, age 27, caps 79Pablo Canavosio, scrum-half, age 29, caps 37Edoardo Gori, scrum-half, age 21, caps 5Fabio Semenzato, scrum-half, age 25, caps 5Riccardo Bocchino, fly-half, age 23, caps 8Luciano Orquera, fly-half, age 29, caps 24Gonzalo Canale, centre, age 28, caps 68Gonzalo Garcia, centre, age 27, caps 22Matteo Pratichetti, centre, age 26, caps 23Alberto Sgarbi, centre, age 24, caps 13Tommaso Benvenuti, wing, age 20, caps 8Mirco Bergamasco, wing, age 28, caps 82Giulio Toniolatti, wing, age 27, caps 6Andrea Masi, full-back, age 30, caps 61Luke McLean, full-back, age 24, caps 28.Average age 27.6Average caps 38.8", "tags": ["Rugby World Cup 2011", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "Rugby World Cup 2011: Italy team guide"},{"date": "2011-07-14T12:38:27Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Bond investors on Thursday sent a warning to Italy that it was not yet out of the financial woods.The first auction of longer-term bonds since Italy began feeling the heat from the financial wildfire on the eurozone periphery succeeded in attracting enough buyers. But they demanded far higher returns than had been expected, including an all-time record of 5.9% for holding 15-year paper.As the outcome became known, the stock market briskly reversed course. Having risen 0.3% before the auction, the FTSE MIB index of blue chip shares fell 1.7% before recovering some of the lost ground. Banks and insurance companies \u2013 big holders of government debt \u2013 took the brunt of the losses.In the bond markets, the premium that investors demanded for holding Italian, rather than safe-haven German, benchmark paper shot back through the 3 percentage point barrier.The warning shot from investors came as members of the upper house of parliament prepared to vote on a four-year austerity budget which the government is hoping to rush through by the weekend. In a further effort to reassure the markets, more deficit-cutting measures have been included in the past 48 hours, including pension cuts and additional health charges. The package also now contains pledges of privatisation and deregulation.Silvio Berlusconi's conservative government has a majority in both houses. But in the lower house, the chamber of deputies, where it has only a slim edge, the prime minister has turned Friday's division into a confidence vote. That means any of his followers considering a rebellion will know it could bring down the government.The opposition is due to vote against the package. But in the national interest it has agreed not to present amendments.The bond auction pushed the gross yield on Italy's five-year treasury bonds to 4.93%, the highest level since June 2008 and a full percentage point above the level at the last offering. But demand exceeded supply by 100% for the five-year bonds, and by 50% for the 15-year bonds.", "tags": ["Bonds", "Italy", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Austerity"], "title": "Bond investors give Italy warning shot"},{"date": "2011-07-13T19:59:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy on Wednesday opened the way for a new wave of privatisations as part of its efforts to calm the markets after a three-day run on its shares and bonds.Measures to encourage the sale of local authority assets and of state holdings in big corporations were among new provisions inserted at the last minute into a \u20ac40bn (\u00a335bn) austerity plan aiming at balancing Italy's public accounts by 2014.The finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, had earlier reacted to concerns about the possibility of Rome being dragged into the eurozone debt crisis with a promise to impose another round of spending cuts by Friday.His assurance that opposition parties would agree within a matter of days to rally round further austerity measures immediately calmed jittery investors and revealed yet again the respect that Silvio Berlusconi's finance chief has retained with investors during the crisis.The Milan stock exchange jumped 1.4% to 18765 points following his comments, while the 10-year yield dropped to 5.45%, after touching 6% a day earlier.But an attempt to extend liberalisation to the legal professions was watered down when it ran into a determined revolt by lawyers and notaries in Berlusconi's governing Freedom People party. Around 80 threatened to bring down the government rather than agree to the abolition of the \"ordini\", or professional associations, that limit competition and hold up fees.The liberalising measures appeared, paradoxically, to have been inserted at the insistence of Italy's centre-left opposition. The Democratic party, the biggest opposition group, is more disposed to de-regulation than Berlusconi's, whose membership includes many small business people who fear increased competition.The government has made Friday evening's crucial division in the lower house of parliament, where it has a narrow majority, a vote of confidence. So, were it to lose, it would have to resign.With markets still jittery, the former central bank governor and president-designate of the ECB, Mario Draghi, warned the government that, to meet its target, it would have to raise taxes or make further spending cuts. The ratings agency Fitch nevertheless gave the plan a vote of confidence, saying it expected the government to succeed in cutting the deficit.It said the market turmoil reflected \"a crisis of market confidence in the European policy response to the eurozone debt crisis, rather than deteriorating sovereign credit fundamentals\". Germany added to the turmoil after its finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, refused to support a leaders' summit this weekend to agree plans for a second Greek rescue.Sch\u00e4uble wants to give himself the maximum time possible to pursue his plans for greater private investor involvement in the rescue, which could delay matters until September.The European Central Bank and several EU leaders have argued that forcing private investors to take a cut in the value of their Greek loans would trigger defaults and a mass investor withdrawal from Italy, Spain and possibly Belgium.Stress tests on EU banks on Friday have already been called a whitewash by critics, who argue they are designed to disguise the depleted resources of Europe's financial institutions.German state-owned lender Helaba was expected to be one of about 15 banks failed by the European Banking Authority, before it pulled out on Wednesday. It accused the EBA of ignoring complex derivatives as collateral in determining its capital base.Ireland's prime minister, Enda Kenny, said a definitive plan on Greece was needed quickly. Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Ireland's credit rating to junk late on Tuesday.Kenny and others have warned that unless a summit is held on Friday it could have a strong negative impact on financial markets.Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European council, has informed ambassadors he intends to hold the summit on Friday evening, and most of the 17 eurozone member states back the decision.\"Markets reacted very badly after eurozone finance ministers could not reach an agreement,\" an EU diplomat said, referring to a finance ministers' meeting on Monday. \"If they cannot agree, we take the fight to the highest level. People are working on a set of conclusions to be agreed.\"A senior EU official said the Germans were furious about being \"backed into a corner\" and were ready to veto a deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Privatisation", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy hopes privatisations will calm markets"},{"date": "2011-07-11T15:41:49Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy was firmly in the eye of the eurozone debt storm on Monday as it became the target of potentially self-fulfilling fears that it will be unable to pay off its huge public debts.In an attempt to stem selling surges in the bond and equity markets, Italy's finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, promised to \"send the markets a strong signal\". He said a package of measures to reduce the budget deficit would be \"armour-plated\" and approved by parliament within a week: \"Something that has never happened in the history of Italy.\"The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said she had discussed the situation on Sunday with Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. She told a press conference in Berlin that Italy had to agree \"on a budget that meets the need for frugality and consolidation\", adding: \"I have full confidence the Italian government will pass exactly this kind of budget.\"Concern over the effectiveness of the package was central to the sell-off of Italian shares and bonds that began on Friday. But neither Tremonti's nor Merkel's words managed to stem the panic. The yield on benchmark 10-year government bonds soared to 5.565% \u2013 the highest since May 2001 \u2013 which sharply increases the state's borrowing costs. At one point, the spread between the Italian benchmark bond and its German equivalent reached a record 290 basis points.The concern over bonds infected the stock market where Italian banks, leading holders of their country's debt, were particularly badly hit. Intesa SanPaolo's shares lost more than 7.5% as the FTSE MIB index of Milan bourse blue-chips slid 3.9% by the close of business.One of the concerns driving markets was that the return on Italy's bonds could reach a level that was unsustainable for its treasury. The rise in yields, in effect the interest rate Italy must pay to borrow, comes at a particularly awkward moment: Bloomberg estimated last week that between now and the end of 2012, the government will have to refinance 26% of its public debt.The Italian state's accumulated borrowing has risen to almost 120% of GDP \u2013 the second highest level in the EU after Greece. As part of a programme for its reduction, Tremonti last week unveiled a four-year, \u20ac40bn-plus (\u00a332bn) package of deficit-cutting measures.But, with Berlusconi's coalition partners in the Northern League clamouring for tax cuts to buy back the government's lost popularity, all but \u20ac6bn of the adjustments were postponed. Fears that the package could be watered down \u2013 or that Tremonti may not be around to see them through \u2013 contributed to a growing sense of unease among investors.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Italy", "Financial crisis", "Europe", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Italy promises to rush through budget cuts as bond markets reflect bailout fears"},{"date": "2011-07-05T13:08:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "His government colleagues can't stand him and Silvio Berlusconi wishes he could do without his deficit-obsessed finance minister who won't allow him to spend the money he hasn't got. Many Italian members of parliament blame him for the failure of the right in recent municipal elections and referendums. But Giulio Tremonti, who presented a \u20ac43bn ($62bn) austerity plan last week to balance the budget by 2014, believes that he is indispensable and without him, Italy would rapidly join the Pigs (Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain).A former tax adviser, Giulio Tremonti, 63, has been finance minister in all four of Berlusconi's governments since 1994. Respected by the church as well as in business circles, and liked by Italians, he is the antithesis of his boss, and is known to tender his resignation at the slightest disagreement. Berlusconi, quite aware that Tremonti is his best asset on both the domestic and international front, refuses it each time.To achieve his ends, Tremonti threatened to leave his ministry once again. \"Do you want Italy to take the same road as Greece? If that's what you want, I'm leaving,\" was his reply to the complaints in his camp, notably by coalition Northern League MPs who would have preferred tax cuts. One minister even judged Tremonti's plan \"worthy of a psychiatrist\". Three meetings of senior government members were held before everyone finally agreed.In the end the ratings agencies, highly criticised by Tremonti, came to his rescue. By threatening to downgrade their ratings on Italy because of its massive budget deficit (120% of GDP) and poor growth (0.1% in the first quarter), Standard & Poor's and Moody's obliged Berlusconi and his allies to pass another painful austerity plan, following a \u20ac25bn one in 2010.Most of the \u20ac43bn budget savings will be spread over 2013 and 2014.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Business", "Euro"], "title": "Italy agrees to \u20ac43bn austerity plan"},{"date": "2011-09-30T13:38:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The prosecution has wound up its case against Amanda Knox by saying that \"fortunately\" she and her Italian former boyfriend could not be executed for the murder of British student Meredith Kercher.It was a reminder that, in her US home state of Washington, Knox would risk lethal injection or even the gallows if her appeal were rejected. Last week, the prosecution asked for the sentences passed on Knox and Raffaele Sollecito to be increased to life.\"They killed [Kercher] for nothing,\" said prosecution counsel Manuela Comodi. \"But they killed her. And it is for that reason they should be found guilty and given the maximum sentence which, fortunately, in Italy is not the death sentence.\"The tangled case, which has fascinated amateur detectives the world over, is due to end on Monday. In line with Italian court practice, each of the parties has a final chance to sway the two professional and six lay judges who will decide.Comodi was speaking after her colleague Giuliano Mignini, who oversaw the original investigation, made an emotional speech in which he claimed, as evidence of the appellants' guilt, their reaction to gruesome images of the murder scene shown in court.\"At the trial, Amanda never looked at them. Never. Raffaele looked every so often with one eye \u2013 icy, expressionless. Here ... Amanda had her eyes cast down. Raffaele looked away,\" said Mignini. \"These are little things that are important.\"He went on to tell the court the Knox family had spent a million dollars on their campaign to establish her innocence. And, to the visible astonishment of defence lawyers, he ended by quoting a US tourist in Perugia, who had apparently said: \"They are guilty \u2013 but will get away with it.\"The defence argument is that a third person, Rudy Guede from the Ivory Coast, who has been convicted of the murder, killed Kercher on his own during a break-in. Mignini described him as a \"poor black man\" having earlier, pointedly, referred to the appellants as being \"of good families\".The prosecution argued the defence had yet to explain two points: evidence that a broken window in the flat Knox shared with Kercher could not have been smashed by an intruder because the shutters were closed, and footprints in the bathroom that could not have been Guede's.Comodi said they were Sollecito's, adding: \"They didn't belong to Martians.\"", "tags": ["Amanda Knox", "Meredith Kercher", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "Raffaele Sollecito", "US crime"], "title": "Amanda Knox 'is lucky Italy doesn't have death penalty'"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-12-22T18:44:29Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Stock markets around Europe regained some poise on Thursday after Italy's new leader survived a make-or-break vote on his austerity plan and investors snapped up bank shares after emergency funds for the financial system were made available.Mario Monti's decision to link an Italian senate vote on his \u20ac33bn (\u00a327.5bn) budget package to a vote of confidence risked plunging the country into fresh political chaos. But in the event he managed to get the plan approved and will now set about balancing Italy's budget by 2013.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a local housing tax, health spending cuts, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Trade unions said the burden would fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.There were signs of growing discontent in Greece, where hearse owners became the latest to demonstrate their grievances, by staging protest drives through the country's two main cities. They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" said protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece.But the tone was somewhat more upbeat on financial markets, where the FTSE 100 added 1.3%, France's CAC40 gained 1.4% and Germany's DAX rose 1.1%. Banking stocks were in demand as investors reassessed the strong take-up of loans from the European Central Bank on Wednesday as at least providing some liquidity, even if it did highlight the precarious state of the financial sector.There was some defrosting of Franco-British relations, which had grown strained following David Cameron's EU veto and French comments on Britain's suitability for a credit downgrade. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the French foreign minister, called time on the war of words. He said recent comments by president Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator, went \"further than their authors wished\". Sarkozy is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\" and Jouyet said Britain's right were the \"stupidest in the world\".Jupp\u00e9 also sought to calm EU break-up jitters, adding: \"We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU. It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.\"The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, did little to downplay concerns about the sovereign debt crisis. Speaking in Frankfurt, he highlighted worries about the resilience of the financial system and \"deteriorating growth prospects\".\"Dependence on central banks has risen and signs are intensifying that stressed financial conditions are passing through to the real economy,\" he told a press conference in his role as vice-chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Italy", "Greece", "Austerity"], "title": "Stock markets recover after crucial Italy vote"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-12-22T18:44:29Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Stock markets around Europe regained some poise on Thursday after Italy's new leader survived a make-or-break vote on his austerity plan and investors snapped up bank shares after emergency funds for the financial system were made available.Mario Monti's decision to link an Italian senate vote on his \u20ac33bn (\u00a327.5bn) budget package to a vote of confidence risked plunging the country into fresh political chaos. But in the event he managed to get the plan approved and will now set about balancing Italy's budget by 2013.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a local housing tax, health spending cuts, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Trade unions said the burden would fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.There were signs of growing discontent in Greece, where hearse owners became the latest to demonstrate their grievances, by staging protest drives through the country's two main cities. They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" said protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece.But the tone was somewhat more upbeat on financial markets, where the FTSE 100 added 1.3%, France's CAC40 gained 1.4% and Germany's DAX rose 1.1%. Banking stocks were in demand as investors reassessed the strong take-up of loans from the European Central Bank on Wednesday as at least providing some liquidity, even if it did highlight the precarious state of the financial sector.There was some defrosting of Franco-British relations, which had grown strained following David Cameron's EU veto and French comments on Britain's suitability for a credit downgrade. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the French foreign minister, called time on the war of words. He said recent comments by president Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator, went \"further than their authors wished\". Sarkozy is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\" and Jouyet said Britain's right were the \"stupidest in the world\".Jupp\u00e9 also sought to calm EU break-up jitters, adding: \"We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU. It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.\"The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, did little to downplay concerns about the sovereign debt crisis. Speaking in Frankfurt, he highlighted worries about the resilience of the financial system and \"deteriorating growth prospects\".\"Dependence on central banks has risen and signs are intensifying that stressed financial conditions are passing through to the real economy,\" he told a press conference in his role as vice-chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Italy", "Greece", "Austerity"], "title": "Stock markets recover after crucial Italy vote"},{"date": "2011-11-28T08:55:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rumours of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout for Italy boosted markets on Monday morning, as Moody's warned that the escalating eurozone crisis threatens the credit rating of all EU states.Italian newspaper La Stampa reported that the IMF was preparing an aid package for Italy, a claim swiftly denied by the international body: \"There are no discussions with the Italian authorities on a programme for IMF financing,\" a spokesperson said.La Stampa claimed that the IMF could provide up to \u20ac600bn (\u00a3515bn) at a rate of 4%-5%, giving Italy 18 months to sort its finances out. Italy has moved centre-stage in the eurozone crisis in recent weeks as the cost of its borrowing has soared. The yields on its 10-year bonds are comfortably above 7%, the threshold above which other eurozone countries have received bailouts.Reuters reported on Monday morning that contact between the IMF and Rome have intensified recently, but that it was unclear what support Italy could be offered.An IMF inspection team will be in Rome over the coming days.\"Given that IMF chief Christine Lagarde recently said that the fund only had \u20ac285bn in emergency funds, this story seems rather implausible, however there does appear to be talk of some form of plan in the works, however it is not immediately clear how the IMF would be able to raise the money needed,\" said Michael Hewson, an analyst at CMC markets.European stock markets rose in early trading despite the IMF denials. The FTSE 100 was up 42 points at 5,206, a 0.75% rise, while the French CAC and the German DAX were up 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. The euro rose 0.4% against the dollar.The IMF rumours came just as credit ratings agency Moody's warned that all EU countries could be downgraded as a result of the growing eurozone crisis.\"The continued rapid escalation of the euro area sovereign and banking credit crisis is threatening the credit standing of all European sovereigns,\" Moody's said.Moody's said there was a possible positive scenario, in which the euro was preserved without widespread defaults: \"Even this 'positive' scenario carries very negative rating implications in the interim period.\"The possibility of multiple defaults and the fragmentation of the euro area \"would have negative repercussions for the credit standing of all euro area and EU sovereigns,\" Moody's said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European banks", "Stock markets", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "IMF denies reports of Italy bailout deal"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-12-22T18:44:29Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Stock markets around Europe regained some poise on Thursday after Italy's new leader survived a make-or-break vote on his austerity plan and investors snapped up bank shares after emergency funds for the financial system were made available.Mario Monti's decision to link an Italian senate vote on his \u20ac33bn (\u00a327.5bn) budget package to a vote of confidence risked plunging the country into fresh political chaos. But in the event he managed to get the plan approved and will now set about balancing Italy's budget by 2013.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a local housing tax, health spending cuts, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Trade unions said the burden would fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.There were signs of growing discontent in Greece, where hearse owners became the latest to demonstrate their grievances, by staging protest drives through the country's two main cities. They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" said protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece.But the tone was somewhat more upbeat on financial markets, where the FTSE 100 added 1.3%, France's CAC40 gained 1.4% and Germany's DAX rose 1.1%. Banking stocks were in demand as investors reassessed the strong take-up of loans from the European Central Bank on Wednesday as at least providing some liquidity, even if it did highlight the precarious state of the financial sector.There was some defrosting of Franco-British relations, which had grown strained following David Cameron's EU veto and French comments on Britain's suitability for a credit downgrade. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the French foreign minister, called time on the war of words. He said recent comments by president Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator, went \"further than their authors wished\". Sarkozy is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\" and Jouyet said Britain's right were the \"stupidest in the world\".Jupp\u00e9 also sought to calm EU break-up jitters, adding: \"We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU. It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.\"The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, did little to downplay concerns about the sovereign debt crisis. Speaking in Frankfurt, he highlighted worries about the resilience of the financial system and \"deteriorating growth prospects\".\"Dependence on central banks has risen and signs are intensifying that stressed financial conditions are passing through to the real economy,\" he told a press conference in his role as vice-chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Italy", "Greece", "Austerity"], "title": "Stock markets recover after crucial Italy vote"},{"date": "2011-11-28T08:55:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rumours of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout for Italy boosted markets on Monday morning, as Moody's warned that the escalating eurozone crisis threatens the credit rating of all EU states.Italian newspaper La Stampa reported that the IMF was preparing an aid package for Italy, a claim swiftly denied by the international body: \"There are no discussions with the Italian authorities on a programme for IMF financing,\" a spokesperson said.La Stampa claimed that the IMF could provide up to \u20ac600bn (\u00a3515bn) at a rate of 4%-5%, giving Italy 18 months to sort its finances out. Italy has moved centre-stage in the eurozone crisis in recent weeks as the cost of its borrowing has soared. The yields on its 10-year bonds are comfortably above 7%, the threshold above which other eurozone countries have received bailouts.Reuters reported on Monday morning that contact between the IMF and Rome have intensified recently, but that it was unclear what support Italy could be offered.An IMF inspection team will be in Rome over the coming days.\"Given that IMF chief Christine Lagarde recently said that the fund only had \u20ac285bn in emergency funds, this story seems rather implausible, however there does appear to be talk of some form of plan in the works, however it is not immediately clear how the IMF would be able to raise the money needed,\" said Michael Hewson, an analyst at CMC markets.European stock markets rose in early trading despite the IMF denials. The FTSE 100 was up 42 points at 5,206, a 0.75% rise, while the French CAC and the German DAX were up 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. The euro rose 0.4% against the dollar.The IMF rumours came just as credit ratings agency Moody's warned that all EU countries could be downgraded as a result of the growing eurozone crisis.\"The continued rapid escalation of the euro area sovereign and banking credit crisis is threatening the credit standing of all European sovereigns,\" Moody's said.Moody's said there was a possible positive scenario, in which the euro was preserved without widespread defaults: \"Even this 'positive' scenario carries very negative rating implications in the interim period.\"The possibility of multiple defaults and the fragmentation of the euro area \"would have negative repercussions for the credit standing of all euro area and EU sovereigns,\" Moody's said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European banks", "Stock markets", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "IMF denies reports of Italy bailout deal"},{"date": "2011-11-10T19:51:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The European Central Bank is under pressure to open the money taps to help Italy, which is struggling to fund its debts through the private markets. Every day private lenders demand Rome pays a higher interest rate. Without help from the eurozone's central bank, Italy could go the way of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, which rely on loans supplied directly from the treasury departments of eurozone countries.Mario Draghi, the new ECB boss, has refused to offer more than limited support. He says the job of a central banker falls short of extending support to individual countries. But there is a problem with his stance: the European Financial Stability Facility, the successor to the hotchpotch of loan packages for Lisbon, Athens and Dublin, cannot cope with funding a country as big as Italy.What has the ECB done so far?The central bank for the 17 eurozone countries has lent \u20ac183bn since the beginning of the crisis. Around \u20ac110bn of that has been directed at Italy and Spain since August. Capital Economics, a London-based consultancy, said it is likely 80% was directed at Italy.How much can the ECB lend?Unlimited amounts. A central bank, such as the Bank of England, can print as much money as it likes which it can then pass on in loans to eurozone countries. Figures show the ECB spent \u20ac9.5bn buying up eurozone bonds last week, more than double the previous week's \u20ac4bn.However, many believe even such huge sums are too little too late, and that one or two trillion is needed to show the markets that the euro's central bank means business \u2013 a kind of bond market shock and awe strategy, or to use David Cameron's term, a big bazooka. The total lent by the ECB so far is small compared to the \u20ac9.2tn income of all eurozone members. In practice, the amount depends on the reaction of banks, businesses and households to a policy that floods the economy with extra currency.More cash in the economy should lead to inflation. As people and businesses spend the extra funds, so demand rises in relation to supply and inflation takes off.Are there no restrictions on the ECB?Draghi says rules adopted at the birth of the single currency prevent him favouring one country over another. The former head of the Italian central bank said his hands were tied. But analysts believe there is plenty of wriggle room and Draghi could be forced to carry out the wishes of eurozone finance ministers should they agree.What is needed for Italy?The Italians have run up debts of \u20ac1.8tn, equivalent to 120% of annual income. The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell marginally on Thursday, but is still unsustainable. Rome will begin to spend more than 20% of its income on debt interest within a couple of years if its rates stay at the current 7% level. It will need a commitment from the ECB to lend about \u20ac700b n, says Capital Economics, to reassure the private markets.Who is blocking ECB lending to Italy?A group of countries headed by Germany. Berlin fears giving the green light to the ECB will trigger the hyperinflation that ruined the country in the 1920s. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who is worried about the knock-on effects for his own country, argues that inflation worries are a red herring. The eurozone is heading for recession and inflation is falling. The supply of money is contracting as companies and households save their cash. Loans to Italy will have no impact, he says, on the wider economy. And in any case a little bit of inflation erodes debt.Is there anything else the ECB can do?It has two main options. It could cut interest rates. At the central bank's last monthly meeting it shaved 0.25 percentage points off the previous 1.5% rate. They are still higher than the UK's 0.5% and the US's 0.25%. Draghi could ease the debt burden on the entire eurozone \u2013 countries, businesses and households \u2013 not just to help Italy but also to prevent a recession that is inevitable without a change of policy.And the second option?Draghi could follow the Bank of England and the US Federal Reserve with a programme of quantitative easing. This involves printing money to buy government bonds from European banks. Increasing the demand for government bonds (which is the name given for the thousands of loans each government has built up from years of overspending) increases the price and depresses the yield, leading to lower interest rates.Why not carry out these policies?Draghi says there is no mandate for starting quantitative easing. He may cut interest rates further, though it is difficult to know what the ECB council is thinking as unlike the Fed and the UK central bank, it refuses to publish minutes of its meetings.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Interest rates", "Quantitative easing", "Economics", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "Euro", "World news"], "title": "European central bank: options on Italy"},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-12-22T18:44:29Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Stock markets around Europe regained some poise on Thursday after Italy's new leader survived a make-or-break vote on his austerity plan and investors snapped up bank shares after emergency funds for the financial system were made available.Mario Monti's decision to link an Italian senate vote on his \u20ac33bn (\u00a327.5bn) budget package to a vote of confidence risked plunging the country into fresh political chaos. But in the event he managed to get the plan approved and will now set about balancing Italy's budget by 2013.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a local housing tax, health spending cuts, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Trade unions said the burden would fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.There were signs of growing discontent in Greece, where hearse owners became the latest to demonstrate their grievances, by staging protest drives through the country's two main cities. They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" said protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece.But the tone was somewhat more upbeat on financial markets, where the FTSE 100 added 1.3%, France's CAC40 gained 1.4% and Germany's DAX rose 1.1%. Banking stocks were in demand as investors reassessed the strong take-up of loans from the European Central Bank on Wednesday as at least providing some liquidity, even if it did highlight the precarious state of the financial sector.There was some defrosting of Franco-British relations, which had grown strained following David Cameron's EU veto and French comments on Britain's suitability for a credit downgrade. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the French foreign minister, called time on the war of words. He said recent comments by president Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator, went \"further than their authors wished\". Sarkozy is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\" and Jouyet said Britain's right were the \"stupidest in the world\".Jupp\u00e9 also sought to calm EU break-up jitters, adding: \"We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU. It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.\"The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, did little to downplay concerns about the sovereign debt crisis. Speaking in Frankfurt, he highlighted worries about the resilience of the financial system and \"deteriorating growth prospects\".\"Dependence on central banks has risen and signs are intensifying that stressed financial conditions are passing through to the real economy,\" he told a press conference in his role as vice-chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Italy", "Greece", "Austerity"], "title": "Stock markets recover after crucial Italy vote"},{"date": "2011-11-28T08:55:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rumours of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout for Italy boosted markets on Monday morning, as Moody's warned that the escalating eurozone crisis threatens the credit rating of all EU states.Italian newspaper La Stampa reported that the IMF was preparing an aid package for Italy, a claim swiftly denied by the international body: \"There are no discussions with the Italian authorities on a programme for IMF financing,\" a spokesperson said.La Stampa claimed that the IMF could provide up to \u20ac600bn (\u00a3515bn) at a rate of 4%-5%, giving Italy 18 months to sort its finances out. Italy has moved centre-stage in the eurozone crisis in recent weeks as the cost of its borrowing has soared. The yields on its 10-year bonds are comfortably above 7%, the threshold above which other eurozone countries have received bailouts.Reuters reported on Monday morning that contact between the IMF and Rome have intensified recently, but that it was unclear what support Italy could be offered.An IMF inspection team will be in Rome over the coming days.\"Given that IMF chief Christine Lagarde recently said that the fund only had \u20ac285bn in emergency funds, this story seems rather implausible, however there does appear to be talk of some form of plan in the works, however it is not immediately clear how the IMF would be able to raise the money needed,\" said Michael Hewson, an analyst at CMC markets.European stock markets rose in early trading despite the IMF denials. The FTSE 100 was up 42 points at 5,206, a 0.75% rise, while the French CAC and the German DAX were up 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. The euro rose 0.4% against the dollar.The IMF rumours came just as credit ratings agency Moody's warned that all EU countries could be downgraded as a result of the growing eurozone crisis.\"The continued rapid escalation of the euro area sovereign and banking credit crisis is threatening the credit standing of all European sovereigns,\" Moody's said.Moody's said there was a possible positive scenario, in which the euro was preserved without widespread defaults: \"Even this 'positive' scenario carries very negative rating implications in the interim period.\"The possibility of multiple defaults and the fragmentation of the euro area \"would have negative repercussions for the credit standing of all euro area and EU sovereigns,\" Moody's said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European banks", "Stock markets", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "IMF denies reports of Italy bailout deal"},{"date": "2011-11-10T19:51:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The European Central Bank is under pressure to open the money taps to help Italy, which is struggling to fund its debts through the private markets. Every day private lenders demand Rome pays a higher interest rate. Without help from the eurozone's central bank, Italy could go the way of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, which rely on loans supplied directly from the treasury departments of eurozone countries.Mario Draghi, the new ECB boss, has refused to offer more than limited support. He says the job of a central banker falls short of extending support to individual countries. But there is a problem with his stance: the European Financial Stability Facility, the successor to the hotchpotch of loan packages for Lisbon, Athens and Dublin, cannot cope with funding a country as big as Italy.What has the ECB done so far?The central bank for the 17 eurozone countries has lent \u20ac183bn since the beginning of the crisis. Around \u20ac110bn of that has been directed at Italy and Spain since August. Capital Economics, a London-based consultancy, said it is likely 80% was directed at Italy.How much can the ECB lend?Unlimited amounts. A central bank, such as the Bank of England, can print as much money as it likes which it can then pass on in loans to eurozone countries. Figures show the ECB spent \u20ac9.5bn buying up eurozone bonds last week, more than double the previous week's \u20ac4bn.However, many believe even such huge sums are too little too late, and that one or two trillion is needed to show the markets that the euro's central bank means business \u2013 a kind of bond market shock and awe strategy, or to use David Cameron's term, a big bazooka. The total lent by the ECB so far is small compared to the \u20ac9.2tn income of all eurozone members. In practice, the amount depends on the reaction of banks, businesses and households to a policy that floods the economy with extra currency.More cash in the economy should lead to inflation. As people and businesses spend the extra funds, so demand rises in relation to supply and inflation takes off.Are there no restrictions on the ECB?Draghi says rules adopted at the birth of the single currency prevent him favouring one country over another. The former head of the Italian central bank said his hands were tied. But analysts believe there is plenty of wriggle room and Draghi could be forced to carry out the wishes of eurozone finance ministers should they agree.What is needed for Italy?The Italians have run up debts of \u20ac1.8tn, equivalent to 120% of annual income. The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell marginally on Thursday, but is still unsustainable. Rome will begin to spend more than 20% of its income on debt interest within a couple of years if its rates stay at the current 7% level. It will need a commitment from the ECB to lend about \u20ac700b n, says Capital Economics, to reassure the private markets.Who is blocking ECB lending to Italy?A group of countries headed by Germany. Berlin fears giving the green light to the ECB will trigger the hyperinflation that ruined the country in the 1920s. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who is worried about the knock-on effects for his own country, argues that inflation worries are a red herring. The eurozone is heading for recession and inflation is falling. The supply of money is contracting as companies and households save their cash. Loans to Italy will have no impact, he says, on the wider economy. And in any case a little bit of inflation erodes debt.Is there anything else the ECB can do?It has two main options. It could cut interest rates. At the central bank's last monthly meeting it shaved 0.25 percentage points off the previous 1.5% rate. They are still higher than the UK's 0.5% and the US's 0.25%. Draghi could ease the debt burden on the entire eurozone \u2013 countries, businesses and households \u2013 not just to help Italy but also to prevent a recession that is inevitable without a change of policy.And the second option?Draghi could follow the Bank of England and the US Federal Reserve with a programme of quantitative easing. This involves printing money to buy government bonds from European banks. Increasing the demand for government bonds (which is the name given for the thousands of loans each government has built up from years of overspending) increases the price and depresses the yield, leading to lower interest rates.Why not carry out these policies?Draghi says there is no mandate for starting quantitative easing. He may cut interest rates further, though it is difficult to know what the ECB council is thinking as unlike the Fed and the UK central bank, it refuses to publish minutes of its meetings.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Interest rates", "Quantitative easing", "Economics", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "Euro", "World news"], "title": "European central bank: options on Italy"},{"date": "2011-11-07T17:25:40Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's finances look shaky \u2013 a debt-to-GDP ratio of 118%, a heavy proportion of debt to be rolled over and growth almost at a standstill. On the other hand, the level of household debt is much lower that of most other large European countries. Nor does the government have the same size of unfunded pension and other liabilities as some other European countries.This chart and caption, published a couple of weeks ago by Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale analysts, is alarming.", "tags": ["Euro", "Business"], "title": "If you thought Italy was bad..."},{"date": "2011-11-16T13:16:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The former European commissioner, Mario Monti, has unveiled Italy's new government and told Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, he was ready to test its support in parliament.Monti, a distinguished liberal economist, kept for himself the finance ministry. He handed the industry and infrastructure portfolios to Corrado Passera, the CEO of Italy's biggest retail bank, Intesa Sanpaolo.The dominant note in the list Monti read out was the weight of academics, who will occupy more than a third of the seats in cabinet. Three of the ministers in his bigger-than-expected cabinet were women, and two were appointed to top jobs: Anna Maria Cancellieri as interior minister and Paola Severino as justice minister.The new prime minister, Monti, confirmed he would take on the unenviable task of governing the eurozone's most indebted nation after two days of intense consultations during which Italy's borrowing costs soared to unsustainable levels.The uncertainties surrounding the formation of the new government were maintained to the end by a much longer than expected two-and-a-half hour meeting between the incoming prime minister and the president.The names on the list of his ministers \u2014 most of them unknown to members of the Italian public \u2014 showed that Monti had failed in his attempt to involve party representatives in his government. His government was made up exclusively of non-aligned technocrats.But the economics professor-turned-eurocrat managed to stave off \u2014 at least temporarily \u2013 demands from the outgoing prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, and his party, for the government to have a limited programme and a fixed lifespan. The influence that Berlusconi's Freedom party will exercise over the new government was nevertheless made clear in the runup to Wednesday's announcement. Monti spent three hours at a meeting that finished after 2.30am local time, with Angelino Alfano, the secretary of Berlusconi's party, trying to reach agreement on the names of the new ministers. Berlusconi was ousted after losing his majority last week in the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. But he and his former coalition allies in the Northern League can still command a majority in the senate.Before the end of the week, the government is expected to outline its programme and seek confidence votes in both houses of parliament, without which it cannot continue. Napolitano, who oversaw the rapid transition, asked Monti to try to form a government on Sunday night.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Mario Monti", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Banking", "European Union"], "title": "Italy unveils government of technocrats"},{"date": "2011-11-08T11:38:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "11.38am: Italy's debts are massive. It is the second most indebted EU nation after Greece, measured by debt as a proportion of GDP. But that general level of debt hasn't changed since 1991 and unlike other comparable countries it has relatively low-levels of household and business debt. Italy has managed its high government debts comparatively well but now that its economy is starting to look shaky the markets have taken fright, pushing the cost of Italy's borrowing up and putting in jeopardy its ability to borrow the \u20ac300bn it requires next year, mostly to repay its debts.I asked Marco Simoni, a lecturer in European political economy at the London School of Economics, why Italy's economy is starting to looking so shaky now. He said that it is the results of the recent recession coupled with the fact that Italy, though a big economy, struggles to grow significantly. He said: It's a completely different story to Greece. In Italy there is not a simple problem of cutting expenses. It's about recalibrating expenses with growth measures. There is a problem in the Italian business environment that prevents growth. Italy scores low in the World Bank indicator of how easy it is to do business \u2013 80th. The problem is bureaucracy and sluggishness of the justice system in courts to clear financial and business matters.People say: despite all the problems this guy made a fortune and built a big business. The state and tax system never helps business; they are an obstacle to be overcome. It's remarkable that despite all of this Italian firms still do so well. There are entrenched interests that hold a monopoly over certain services. Lawyers, notaries and all services that business need to operate and the state, we do not have an independent state service like France, there is too much vested interest.If Italy fails to repay its debts the impact would be far worse than if Greece defaults as it has a much greater overall level of debt, meaning its creditors, mostly European banks, would be in serious trouble. The immediate problem for Italy is in the bond market. My colleagues Jill Treanor and Patrick Collinson have written this explainer about the bond markets. The bond markets are essentially the trade in government debts and Italy's is among the largest at around \u20ac1.9tn. The yield on the price of government Italian bonds has risen sharply \u2013 this is equivalent to the interest rate charged to the Italian government to borrow money. As my colleagues' Q&A explains:The yield moves inversely to the price, so this means the bonds' value has fallen as investors have dumped their holdings of Italian bonds.Investors are dumping their holdings for fear that Italy won't repay their debts, creating a vicious cycle whereby the more the price goes down as people offload Italian bonds for fear of them defaulting, the more the yield rises, the more likely Italy won't be able to refinance its loans and the more likely a default is. When the yields hit 6% it was described as an \"alarm signal\". 7% is the point at which the IMF moved in to bail out Ireland and many analysts believe that is the real danger zones when markets would begin to panic and Italy would be in serious trouble - despite the fact that Italy's central bank this week claimed it could afford up to 8%. The yield hit a record high of 6.74% this morning. Simoni says that the effects of the recession in Italy are very real - especially for younger people who have lost their jobs sooner than the older generation who are protected by better contracts. He also disputes Berlusconi's claim that the restaurants are still full. But he says that there is a very real problem of financial confidence in Italy. He said: Italy is facing a short-term problem of confidence. Markets are worried that the situation of Italian public debt might get worse. We are still far from the point of default. The Bank of Italy a few days ago calculated that they could afford to pay up to 8%. The last auction was about 6% and that is high in historical terms but Italy is robust. One of the reasons for this is that personal indebtedness is extremely low. Italy is definitely a solvent country. The pressure is now on Germany to sanction the European Central Bank to bolster its bail-out plan to make more money available to bail-out faltering economies and avoid a default if it is needed. The hope is that just the suggestion that there would be substantial bail-outs would be enough to calm the markets and send the yield on Italy's bonds back down making them more affordable.", "tags": ["UK news", "Economic policy", "Eurozone crisis", "Italy", "World news"], "title": "Why is Italy in trouble?"},{"date": "2011-10-11T13:06:42Z", "country": "italy", "content": "History is repeating itself. In the past 10 years, some 580,000 people have left southern Italy, driven out by the financial crisis and rising poverty.The population of Naples has fallen by 108,000, Palermo has lost 29,000 residents and Bari 15,000. In 2010 alone, 134,000 terroni (a derogatory term used by Northern League supporters, which originally meant \"farmer\") moved to northern Italy, with 13,000 others going abroad.These alarming figures were published last month by Svimez, an agency that has been monitoring the region's economy since 1946. \"If nothing is done, there will be a demographic tsunami,\" the report concludes.The 15-34 age group accounts for the largest number of emigrants. If the trend continues, only 5 million people will be left in this age group by 2050, compared with 7 million at present. Over-75s would represent 18% of the total population, up from 8% currently.With 0.7% growth forecast for Italy as a whole this year, the southern economy will grow by just 0.1%. Only farming has a few jobs to offer. Industry is on the verge of completely disappearing. For the south to catch up with the rest of the country, some \u20ac60bn ($80bn) would have to be invested, according to Svimez.With national debt standing at 120% of GDP the government has few resources and little political will, but Brussels may be able to help. The European Union allocated \u20ac35bn to Italy for 2007-13 as part of its support for regional development. But only a third has actually been used.A documentary called Ritals (a semi-derogatory French word for Italians) has told the story of earlier Italian migrants who went to France. The father, mother, uncles and aunts of Sophie and Anna-Lisa Chiarello left Corsano in Apulia in the 1950s and 1960s to settle at Enghien, north of Paris. But apart from telling the family's story, Ritals also highlights the suffering emigration entails.Vincenzo and Maria, the two main characters, talk of their early years (working as a mason and a dressmaker, respectively) in a foreign country that while not actively hostile was not very welcoming either. It is the details here that express more poignantly than the Svimez statistics the enduring pain of uprooting one's existence: Maria's fear of the thick, oppressive woodland of the Paris area, having never seen anything other than Salento's olive groves and pine trees; the almost insurmountable difficulty involved in trying to read the word beaucoup (much), the Italian equivalent only requiring four letters.Twenty-five years later the Chiarellos went home to Corsano, their fortune (not quite) made. Of the 30\u00a0million Italians who have emigrated in the past 150 years, about a third have not gone back. Too Italian to feel French, the Chiarellos now realised that they were too French to be completely Italian. They inhabit a sort of no man's land, confusing languages and identities, travelling back and forth.Leaving is one form of suffering; going back is\u00a0another.The Italian Emigration Research Centre (Cisei) in Genoa, the port from which about 10 million Italians sailed to Brazil, Argentina and the US, also tries to flesh out the statistics. Since it was established the centre has collated 3m migrant profiles.The aim is to produce a database that can be consulted on the internet by Italians and their descendants all over the world. Cisei welcomes any material \u2013 letters, passports, photographs \u2013 that may help to preserve the memory of this exodus.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Migration and development"], "title": "Economic exodus from southern Italy"},{"date": "2011-12-22T18:44:29Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Stock markets around Europe regained some poise on Thursday after Italy's new leader survived a make-or-break vote on his austerity plan and investors snapped up bank shares after emergency funds for the financial system were made available.Mario Monti's decision to link an Italian senate vote on his \u20ac33bn (\u00a327.5bn) budget package to a vote of confidence risked plunging the country into fresh political chaos. But in the event he managed to get the plan approved and will now set about balancing Italy's budget by 2013.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a local housing tax, health spending cuts, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Trade unions said the burden would fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.There were signs of growing discontent in Greece, where hearse owners became the latest to demonstrate their grievances, by staging protest drives through the country's two main cities. They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" said protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece.But the tone was somewhat more upbeat on financial markets, where the FTSE 100 added 1.3%, France's CAC40 gained 1.4% and Germany's DAX rose 1.1%. Banking stocks were in demand as investors reassessed the strong take-up of loans from the European Central Bank on Wednesday as at least providing some liquidity, even if it did highlight the precarious state of the financial sector.There was some defrosting of Franco-British relations, which had grown strained following David Cameron's EU veto and French comments on Britain's suitability for a credit downgrade. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the French foreign minister, called time on the war of words. He said recent comments by president Nicolas Sarkozy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator, went \"further than their authors wished\". Sarkozy is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\" and Jouyet said Britain's right were the \"stupidest in the world\".Jupp\u00e9 also sought to calm EU break-up jitters, adding: \"We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU. It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.\"The Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, did little to downplay concerns about the sovereign debt crisis. Speaking in Frankfurt, he highlighted worries about the resilience of the financial system and \"deteriorating growth prospects\".\"Dependence on central banks has risen and signs are intensifying that stressed financial conditions are passing through to the real economy,\" he told a press conference in his role as vice-chairman of the European Systemic Risk Board. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Italy", "Greece", "Austerity"], "title": "Stock markets recover after crucial Italy vote"},{"date": "2011-11-28T08:55:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rumours of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout for Italy boosted markets on Monday morning, as Moody's warned that the escalating eurozone crisis threatens the credit rating of all EU states.Italian newspaper La Stampa reported that the IMF was preparing an aid package for Italy, a claim swiftly denied by the international body: \"There are no discussions with the Italian authorities on a programme for IMF financing,\" a spokesperson said.La Stampa claimed that the IMF could provide up to \u20ac600bn (\u00a3515bn) at a rate of 4%-5%, giving Italy 18 months to sort its finances out. Italy has moved centre-stage in the eurozone crisis in recent weeks as the cost of its borrowing has soared. The yields on its 10-year bonds are comfortably above 7%, the threshold above which other eurozone countries have received bailouts.Reuters reported on Monday morning that contact between the IMF and Rome have intensified recently, but that it was unclear what support Italy could be offered.An IMF inspection team will be in Rome over the coming days.\"Given that IMF chief Christine Lagarde recently said that the fund only had \u20ac285bn in emergency funds, this story seems rather implausible, however there does appear to be talk of some form of plan in the works, however it is not immediately clear how the IMF would be able to raise the money needed,\" said Michael Hewson, an analyst at CMC markets.European stock markets rose in early trading despite the IMF denials. The FTSE 100 was up 42 points at 5,206, a 0.75% rise, while the French CAC and the German DAX were up 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. The euro rose 0.4% against the dollar.The IMF rumours came just as credit ratings agency Moody's warned that all EU countries could be downgraded as a result of the growing eurozone crisis.\"The continued rapid escalation of the euro area sovereign and banking credit crisis is threatening the credit standing of all European sovereigns,\" Moody's said.Moody's said there was a possible positive scenario, in which the euro was preserved without widespread defaults: \"Even this 'positive' scenario carries very negative rating implications in the interim period.\"The possibility of multiple defaults and the fragmentation of the euro area \"would have negative repercussions for the credit standing of all euro area and EU sovereigns,\" Moody's said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European banks", "Stock markets", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "IMF denies reports of Italy bailout deal"},{"date": "2011-11-10T19:51:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The European Central Bank is under pressure to open the money taps to help Italy, which is struggling to fund its debts through the private markets. Every day private lenders demand Rome pays a higher interest rate. Without help from the eurozone's central bank, Italy could go the way of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, which rely on loans supplied directly from the treasury departments of eurozone countries.Mario Draghi, the new ECB boss, has refused to offer more than limited support. He says the job of a central banker falls short of extending support to individual countries. But there is a problem with his stance: the European Financial Stability Facility, the successor to the hotchpotch of loan packages for Lisbon, Athens and Dublin, cannot cope with funding a country as big as Italy.What has the ECB done so far?The central bank for the 17 eurozone countries has lent \u20ac183bn since the beginning of the crisis. Around \u20ac110bn of that has been directed at Italy and Spain since August. Capital Economics, a London-based consultancy, said it is likely 80% was directed at Italy.How much can the ECB lend?Unlimited amounts. A central bank, such as the Bank of England, can print as much money as it likes which it can then pass on in loans to eurozone countries. Figures show the ECB spent \u20ac9.5bn buying up eurozone bonds last week, more than double the previous week's \u20ac4bn.However, many believe even such huge sums are too little too late, and that one or two trillion is needed to show the markets that the euro's central bank means business \u2013 a kind of bond market shock and awe strategy, or to use David Cameron's term, a big bazooka. The total lent by the ECB so far is small compared to the \u20ac9.2tn income of all eurozone members. In practice, the amount depends on the reaction of banks, businesses and households to a policy that floods the economy with extra currency.More cash in the economy should lead to inflation. As people and businesses spend the extra funds, so demand rises in relation to supply and inflation takes off.Are there no restrictions on the ECB?Draghi says rules adopted at the birth of the single currency prevent him favouring one country over another. The former head of the Italian central bank said his hands were tied. But analysts believe there is plenty of wriggle room and Draghi could be forced to carry out the wishes of eurozone finance ministers should they agree.What is needed for Italy?The Italians have run up debts of \u20ac1.8tn, equivalent to 120% of annual income. The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell marginally on Thursday, but is still unsustainable. Rome will begin to spend more than 20% of its income on debt interest within a couple of years if its rates stay at the current 7% level. It will need a commitment from the ECB to lend about \u20ac700b n, says Capital Economics, to reassure the private markets.Who is blocking ECB lending to Italy?A group of countries headed by Germany. Berlin fears giving the green light to the ECB will trigger the hyperinflation that ruined the country in the 1920s. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who is worried about the knock-on effects for his own country, argues that inflation worries are a red herring. The eurozone is heading for recession and inflation is falling. The supply of money is contracting as companies and households save their cash. Loans to Italy will have no impact, he says, on the wider economy. And in any case a little bit of inflation erodes debt.Is there anything else the ECB can do?It has two main options. It could cut interest rates. At the central bank's last monthly meeting it shaved 0.25 percentage points off the previous 1.5% rate. They are still higher than the UK's 0.5% and the US's 0.25%. Draghi could ease the debt burden on the entire eurozone \u2013 countries, businesses and households \u2013 not just to help Italy but also to prevent a recession that is inevitable without a change of policy.And the second option?Draghi could follow the Bank of England and the US Federal Reserve with a programme of quantitative easing. This involves printing money to buy government bonds from European banks. Increasing the demand for government bonds (which is the name given for the thousands of loans each government has built up from years of overspending) increases the price and depresses the yield, leading to lower interest rates.Why not carry out these policies?Draghi says there is no mandate for starting quantitative easing. He may cut interest rates further, though it is difficult to know what the ECB council is thinking as unlike the Fed and the UK central bank, it refuses to publish minutes of its meetings.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Interest rates", "Quantitative easing", "Economics", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "Euro", "World news"], "title": "European central bank: options on Italy"},{"date": "2011-11-07T17:25:40Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's finances look shaky \u2013 a debt-to-GDP ratio of 118%, a heavy proportion of debt to be rolled over and growth almost at a standstill. On the other hand, the level of household debt is much lower that of most other large European countries. Nor does the government have the same size of unfunded pension and other liabilities as some other European countries.This chart and caption, published a couple of weeks ago by Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale analysts, is alarming.", "tags": ["Euro", "Business"], "title": "If you thought Italy was bad..."},{"date": "2011-11-09T11:55:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\"There is a feeling in Asia that this crisis could go terribly wrong,\" said Stuart Gulliver, chief executive of HSBC, this morning as the yield on 10-year Italian bonds approached 7%.Actually, there's a feeling everywhere this morning that it's already going wrong. As Gulliver also said, the reality is dawning that the crisis is moving faster than politicians' ability to deal with it.With Italian yields now at 7.4% (at 11am), Italy will need a bailout if prices were to stay even roughly were they are. That's just arithmetic. As a Lombard Street Research note pointed out, International Monetary Fund (IMF) simulations show that if Italy's funding costs rose to 8%, its interest payments on outstanding debt would reach 20% of government revenues by 2015. That 20% level is generally regarded as intolerable for any country.The problem, of course, is that Italy cannot be bailed out \u2013 or, at least, not easily or quickly. The European Central Bank is not allowed to buy vast quantities of sovereign debt and its new boss, Mario Draghi, is disinclined to read his rulebook a different way. As for the European Financial Stability Facility, the intended saviour, it's not big enough and it's not even up and running. Indeed, its construction appears a complete botch: it rests on guarantees from member states rather than hard up-front cash.So something has to give. As a temporary measure, Italy could call upon the IMF for help. Alternatively, if Silvio Berlusconi were to depart immediately rather than at an unspecified time, it might be possible for the ECB to step up its buying of Italian bonds via its established Securities Market Programme, which is designed to support monetary policy; it would a blurring of the lines but, arguably, the lines are already blurred.The trouble is, both temporary solutions could quickly run out of road themselves. We seem to be fast approaching the point where Germany has to choose: either order the ECB to ignore its mandate and buy Italian bonds with enthusiasm by printing euros; or make plans to break up the single currency.More as the day unfolds \u2026", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Euro", "Business", "European Central Bank", "HSBC", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news"], "title": "Endgame for Italy as bond yields surge"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-11T16:48:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This chapel's renovated Giotto frescoes are breathtaking \u2013 every surface bursts with colour. Giotto was the first artist to portray Christ as a real person and the story of his life covers the walls. The entire wall above the entrance is covered by his terrifying depiction of the last judgement. Book ahead.Piazza Eremitani, cappelladegliscrovegni.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac6 KatharineSianMusic in CerianaThis medieval hilltop village has many attractions \u2013 fabulous food, mountain walks, but perhaps most unusual are the six choirs, famous for preserving their ancient regional singing tradition, involving polyphony \u2013 interweaving melodies. Go to the Easter festival, or even better the festival of Madonna della Villa in September, which starts with a torchlit procession to the chapel, and includes the choirs singing in the piazza. These are village events, not tourist spectacles, but the welcome to strangers is open and sincere.comune.ceriana.im.it/en-GBSquariallFesta della Madonna del Rosario, Cinque TerreWhen we arrived in Biassa last autumn, the small square in front of the church was packed with people of all ages and there were stalls selling local wine and chestnuts. Then a group of priests in green and gold robes emerged from the church, followed by the statue of Mary carried on the shoulders of half a dozen villagers and the rest of the congregation. The procession was accompanied by a group of musicians and we could hear it winding its way through the narrow streets of the village long after we left to continue our walk. It was a wonderful way to experience a tradition that dates back centuries.lecinqueterre.org/engRuby11Isola Bella, Lake Maggiore, Borromean islandsAll of the Borromean islands are magical, but Isola Bella, setting for the Palazzo Borromeo, is the crowning glory. The Borromean family employed the most accomplished architects and gardeners to transform a rocky crag into the setting for its magnificent baroque palace and Italianate gardens. A visit will provide a taste of how an aristocratic Italian family lived in the 17th century. The palace contains a wealth of treasure including paintings, sculptures and Flemish tapestries. borromeoturismo.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac5.50GdeanoukEtruscan Necropolis at TarquiniaOn a hilltop just outside the town are these painted Etruscan burial chambers which inspired DH Lawrence to write what was to be his final, most heartfelt travelogue, Sketches of Etruscan Places. Although there are more than 6,000 tombs, only about 15 are open to visitors each day. The wall paintings are surprisingly celebratory, depicting scenes of dancing, music, feasting and sex! The town's Tarquinia National Museum is devoted to Etruscan exhibits and sarcophagi excavated from the necropolis. Be sure not to miss the pair of winged horses from the pediment of a Tarquinian temple, one of the greatest Etruscan masterpieces ever discovered.necropoliditarquinia.it, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac4KSRobOstia Antica, RomeWhen the usual sites in Rome are heaving with people, Ostia Antica is a place of superb Roman sites which are blessedly peaceful. The site was once the sea port of ancient Rome but was silted up after the decline of the Roman Empire. Many buildings have been excavated and it is possible to spend a whole day here enjoying the sites and rural peace. We were there on a Saturday and it was not mobbed like the centre of Rome.archeoroma.beniculturali.it/en, \u20ac6.50pp, free to under-17s (closed Mondays)NataiesgranCa'Pesaro, VeniceThis splendid gallery on the Grand Canal \u2013 inexplicably absent from many online Venice guides \u2013 houses a delightful collection of 19th and 20th century art (as well as a smaller Oriental Art Museum on the top floor). While the great majority of the works are by Italian artists possibly less well-known to a general audience, some big international names are also represented, with fine pieces by Klimt, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee and Moore.Sestiere Santa Croce, capesaro.visitmuve.it/en/home, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac5.50StanleyAccringtonAmbrosiana library and art gallery, MilanIf you only have time to see one gallery in Milan, make it this one. Set up in 1618, it is home to more than 1,500 paintings by artists such as Raphael, Luini, Titian, Caravaggio, Botticelli and Bruegel. It also has a large collection of work by da Vinci including his Codex Atlanticus. The building is a fine example of Lombard architecture, with mullioned windows, frescoed walls and vaulted ceilings. The visit ends in the library, rich in manuscripts, notably Homer and Virgil. Piazza Pio XI, ambrosiana.eu, from \u20ac10 KSRobMugelloItaly is all about culture \u2013 the place simply oozes art and history \u2013 but if you are seeking a more modern cultural experience I recommend a visit to the Moto GP \u2013 Italian style: Mugello in July. The passion of the crowds is contagious and you will certainly learn a lot about Italians. motogp.comSallyyoung", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: cultural highlights of Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-11T16:48:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This chapel's renovated Giotto frescoes are breathtaking \u2013 every surface bursts with colour. Giotto was the first artist to portray Christ as a real person and the story of his life covers the walls. The entire wall above the entrance is covered by his terrifying depiction of the last judgement. Book ahead.Piazza Eremitani, cappelladegliscrovegni.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac6 KatharineSianMusic in CerianaThis medieval hilltop village has many attractions \u2013 fabulous food, mountain walks, but perhaps most unusual are the six choirs, famous for preserving their ancient regional singing tradition, involving polyphony \u2013 interweaving melodies. Go to the Easter festival, or even better the festival of Madonna della Villa in September, which starts with a torchlit procession to the chapel, and includes the choirs singing in the piazza. These are village events, not tourist spectacles, but the welcome to strangers is open and sincere.comune.ceriana.im.it/en-GBSquariallFesta della Madonna del Rosario, Cinque TerreWhen we arrived in Biassa last autumn, the small square in front of the church was packed with people of all ages and there were stalls selling local wine and chestnuts. Then a group of priests in green and gold robes emerged from the church, followed by the statue of Mary carried on the shoulders of half a dozen villagers and the rest of the congregation. The procession was accompanied by a group of musicians and we could hear it winding its way through the narrow streets of the village long after we left to continue our walk. It was a wonderful way to experience a tradition that dates back centuries.lecinqueterre.org/engRuby11Isola Bella, Lake Maggiore, Borromean islandsAll of the Borromean islands are magical, but Isola Bella, setting for the Palazzo Borromeo, is the crowning glory. The Borromean family employed the most accomplished architects and gardeners to transform a rocky crag into the setting for its magnificent baroque palace and Italianate gardens. A visit will provide a taste of how an aristocratic Italian family lived in the 17th century. The palace contains a wealth of treasure including paintings, sculptures and Flemish tapestries. borromeoturismo.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac5.50GdeanoukEtruscan Necropolis at TarquiniaOn a hilltop just outside the town are these painted Etruscan burial chambers which inspired DH Lawrence to write what was to be his final, most heartfelt travelogue, Sketches of Etruscan Places. Although there are more than 6,000 tombs, only about 15 are open to visitors each day. The wall paintings are surprisingly celebratory, depicting scenes of dancing, music, feasting and sex! The town's Tarquinia National Museum is devoted to Etruscan exhibits and sarcophagi excavated from the necropolis. Be sure not to miss the pair of winged horses from the pediment of a Tarquinian temple, one of the greatest Etruscan masterpieces ever discovered.necropoliditarquinia.it, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac4KSRobOstia Antica, RomeWhen the usual sites in Rome are heaving with people, Ostia Antica is a place of superb Roman sites which are blessedly peaceful. The site was once the sea port of ancient Rome but was silted up after the decline of the Roman Empire. Many buildings have been excavated and it is possible to spend a whole day here enjoying the sites and rural peace. We were there on a Saturday and it was not mobbed like the centre of Rome.archeoroma.beniculturali.it/en, \u20ac6.50pp, free to under-17s (closed Mondays)NataiesgranCa'Pesaro, VeniceThis splendid gallery on the Grand Canal \u2013 inexplicably absent from many online Venice guides \u2013 houses a delightful collection of 19th and 20th century art (as well as a smaller Oriental Art Museum on the top floor). While the great majority of the works are by Italian artists possibly less well-known to a general audience, some big international names are also represented, with fine pieces by Klimt, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee and Moore.Sestiere Santa Croce, capesaro.visitmuve.it/en/home, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac5.50StanleyAccringtonAmbrosiana library and art gallery, MilanIf you only have time to see one gallery in Milan, make it this one. Set up in 1618, it is home to more than 1,500 paintings by artists such as Raphael, Luini, Titian, Caravaggio, Botticelli and Bruegel. It also has a large collection of work by da Vinci including his Codex Atlanticus. The building is a fine example of Lombard architecture, with mullioned windows, frescoed walls and vaulted ceilings. The visit ends in the library, rich in manuscripts, notably Homer and Virgil. Piazza Pio XI, ambrosiana.eu, from \u20ac10 KSRobMugelloItaly is all about culture \u2013 the place simply oozes art and history \u2013 but if you are seeking a more modern cultural experience I recommend a visit to the Moto GP \u2013 Italian style: Mugello in July. The passion of the crowds is contagious and you will certainly learn a lot about Italians. motogp.comSallyyoung", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: cultural highlights of Italy"},{"date": "2012-02-27T16:25:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Last week the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights delivered judgment in an important case about one of the most topical migration issues: irregular migrants intercepted in the Mediterranean by ECHR state parties. In the case of Hirsi Jamaa and others, the court found, unanimously, that Italy had violated three Articles of the ECHR.The applicants in the case were 11 Somalians and 13 Eritreans who had been intercepted by the Italian coastguard in May 2009 when trying to cross the Mediterranean. They were brought to Tripoli in Libya and handed over to the Libyan authorities under an Italo-Libyan agreement. Their identities were not checked during their time on board of the Italian vessels.First, the Grand Chamber had to decide whether the applicants fell within Italy's jurisdiction (Article 1 ECHR). Italy denied that by taking them on board it had exercised \"absolute and exclusive control\" over the applicants. Rather, it argued that it had been obliged under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to save human lives on the high seas. This in itself, in Italy's view, did not create a jurisdictional link between Italy and the rescued.The Grand Chamber disagreed. First, it confirmed that under the law of the sea, and under Italian law for that matter, a ship on the high seas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the flag state. Secondly, states cannot avoid being held responsible under the ECHR by framing an act as a rescue operation under the law of the sea. Thirdly, the events took place on vessels of Italy's armed forces manned by a crew of Italian military personnel. The applicants were thus under continuous and exclusive de jure and de facto control of Italy. Thus, they fell within the jurisdiction of that state for the whole period that they found themselves on those Italian vesssels. One could say here, that a causal legal chain of events starts to operate once a ship operated by a state party's authorities catch sight of a group of people in danger at sea: the law of the sea requires to save them, and as a result these people are brought within the jurisdiction of that state under the ECHR. Put differently, any state attempt to push back irregular migration at sea rather than on land does not absolve a state from its human rights responsibilities.Once this preliminary matter was solved, the court turned to the complaint of the violation of non-refoulement (the prohibition of being sent back to places where there is a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment). The court found two violations of Article 3 ECHR. First, it concluded that Italy had violated the Convention by exposing the applicants to danger in Libya itself. According to many reliable UN, Council of Europe, and NGO sources, even in the spring of 2009, it was \"well-known and easy to verify\" (para. 131) that irregular migrants faced great dangers in Libya. The fact that Libya had assured Italy in a bilateral agreeement that it would deal with such migrants in conformity with international law did not detract from that. Crucially, even if the persons involved do not explicitly ask the state on whose ship they find themselves for asylum, it is still the state's own obligation under the ECHR to check whether they would not face treatment in violation of article 3. Again, this is very important in practice: by just avoiding to even try to find out rescued people's nationality or legal status, a state cannot avoid being held to account under the European convention. Secondly, it also found a violation by the fact that he applicants had been exposed to the risk of being sent onwards from Libya (the intermediary country) to their countries of origin: Somalia and Eritrea. It is for the state (para. 147):to ensure that the intermediary country offers sufficient guarantees to prevent the person concerned being removed to his country of origin without an assessment of the risks faced. The Court observes that that obligation is all the more important when, as in the instant case, the intermediary country is not a State party to the Convention.(emphasis added)First off, the court noted that both countries, Eritrea and Somalia, faced \"widespread serious problems of insecurity\" (para. 151). Secondly and crucially, Italy (para. 156):knew or should have known that there were insufficient guarantees protecting the parties concerned from the risk of being arbitrarily returned to their countries of origin, having regard in particular to the lack of any asylum procedure and the impossibility of making the Libyan authorities recognise the refugee status granted by the UNHCR.Thus states cannot simply wash their hands of a situation like this by failing to acquire information.Also, the court for only the second time ever found a violation of the prohibition of collective expulsion of aliens (Article 4 of Protocol 4) - the first time was in 2002 in the case of \u010conka v Belgium, on a group of expulsed Slovak Roma. In Hirsi Jamaa, the court for the first time had to decide whether this prohibition also applied to removing aliens extraterritorially. It answered that question in the affirmative: Article 4 Protocol 4 contains no reference to \"territory\" nor do the travaux pr\u00e9paratoires point in that direction. And then follows a very important paragraph in the court's reasoning (para. 177): The Court has already found that, according to the established case-law of the Commission and of the Court, the purpose of Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 is to prevent States being able to remove certain aliens without examining their personal circumstances and, consequently, without enabling them to put forward their arguments against the measure taken by the relevant authority. If, therefore, Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 were to apply only to collective expulsions from the national territory of the States Parties to the Convention, a significant component of contemporary migratory patterns would not fall within the ambit of that provision, notwithstanding the fact that the conduct it is intended to prohibit can occur outside national territory and in particular, as in the instant case, on the high seas. Article 4 would thus be ineffective in practice with regard to such situations, which, however, are on the increase. The consequence of that would be that migrants having taken to the sea, often risking their lives, and not having managed to reach the borders of a State, would not be entitled to an examination of their personal circumstances before being expelled, unlike those travelling by land.Consequently, by not carrying out any form of individual assessment whatsoever of the persons involved, the handing over of the applicants to Libya from the Italian ship amounted to a collective expulsion.Finally, the court found a violation of the right to an effective remedy (Article 13 ECHR) in conjunction with the aforementioned articles. The applicants had had no access to any procedure. There were no legal advisers or interpreters on board nor were they given information in general about what was going to happen. As to the legal consequences, the court ruled under Article 46 of the Convention (obligation to abide by the court's judgments, a provision not applied very often) that Italy (para. 211) \"must take all possible steps to obtains assurances from the Libyan authorities that the applicants will not be subjected to treatment incompatible with Article 3 of the convention or arbitrarily repatriated.\" In addition, each applicant was awarded, under Article 41 ECHR, 15,000 euros for non-pecuniary damage suffered.The Portuguese judge, Pinto de Albuquerque, attached a long concurring opinion to the judgment which goes into the linkages between the international human rights law and international refugee law. This was a very important judgment, upholding the absolute nature of the non-refoulement principle in the face of new ways of controlling migration flows by European states. It means that literally pushing back the problem further from a state's territory does not change that state's human rights obligations.", "tags": ["European court of human rights", "Italy", "Libya", "Refugees", "Human rights"], "title": "All at sea: Italy mistreated Mediterranean migrants | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-11T16:48:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This chapel's renovated Giotto frescoes are breathtaking \u2013 every surface bursts with colour. Giotto was the first artist to portray Christ as a real person and the story of his life covers the walls. The entire wall above the entrance is covered by his terrifying depiction of the last judgement. Book ahead.Piazza Eremitani, cappelladegliscrovegni.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac6 KatharineSianMusic in CerianaThis medieval hilltop village has many attractions \u2013 fabulous food, mountain walks, but perhaps most unusual are the six choirs, famous for preserving their ancient regional singing tradition, involving polyphony \u2013 interweaving melodies. Go to the Easter festival, or even better the festival of Madonna della Villa in September, which starts with a torchlit procession to the chapel, and includes the choirs singing in the piazza. These are village events, not tourist spectacles, but the welcome to strangers is open and sincere.comune.ceriana.im.it/en-GBSquariallFesta della Madonna del Rosario, Cinque TerreWhen we arrived in Biassa last autumn, the small square in front of the church was packed with people of all ages and there were stalls selling local wine and chestnuts. Then a group of priests in green and gold robes emerged from the church, followed by the statue of Mary carried on the shoulders of half a dozen villagers and the rest of the congregation. The procession was accompanied by a group of musicians and we could hear it winding its way through the narrow streets of the village long after we left to continue our walk. It was a wonderful way to experience a tradition that dates back centuries.lecinqueterre.org/engRuby11Isola Bella, Lake Maggiore, Borromean islandsAll of the Borromean islands are magical, but Isola Bella, setting for the Palazzo Borromeo, is the crowning glory. The Borromean family employed the most accomplished architects and gardeners to transform a rocky crag into the setting for its magnificent baroque palace and Italianate gardens. A visit will provide a taste of how an aristocratic Italian family lived in the 17th century. The palace contains a wealth of treasure including paintings, sculptures and Flemish tapestries. borromeoturismo.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac5.50GdeanoukEtruscan Necropolis at TarquiniaOn a hilltop just outside the town are these painted Etruscan burial chambers which inspired DH Lawrence to write what was to be his final, most heartfelt travelogue, Sketches of Etruscan Places. Although there are more than 6,000 tombs, only about 15 are open to visitors each day. The wall paintings are surprisingly celebratory, depicting scenes of dancing, music, feasting and sex! The town's Tarquinia National Museum is devoted to Etruscan exhibits and sarcophagi excavated from the necropolis. Be sure not to miss the pair of winged horses from the pediment of a Tarquinian temple, one of the greatest Etruscan masterpieces ever discovered.necropoliditarquinia.it, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac4KSRobOstia Antica, RomeWhen the usual sites in Rome are heaving with people, Ostia Antica is a place of superb Roman sites which are blessedly peaceful. The site was once the sea port of ancient Rome but was silted up after the decline of the Roman Empire. Many buildings have been excavated and it is possible to spend a whole day here enjoying the sites and rural peace. We were there on a Saturday and it was not mobbed like the centre of Rome.archeoroma.beniculturali.it/en, \u20ac6.50pp, free to under-17s (closed Mondays)NataiesgranCa'Pesaro, VeniceThis splendid gallery on the Grand Canal \u2013 inexplicably absent from many online Venice guides \u2013 houses a delightful collection of 19th and 20th century art (as well as a smaller Oriental Art Museum on the top floor). While the great majority of the works are by Italian artists possibly less well-known to a general audience, some big international names are also represented, with fine pieces by Klimt, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee and Moore.Sestiere Santa Croce, capesaro.visitmuve.it/en/home, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac5.50StanleyAccringtonAmbrosiana library and art gallery, MilanIf you only have time to see one gallery in Milan, make it this one. Set up in 1618, it is home to more than 1,500 paintings by artists such as Raphael, Luini, Titian, Caravaggio, Botticelli and Bruegel. It also has a large collection of work by da Vinci including his Codex Atlanticus. The building is a fine example of Lombard architecture, with mullioned windows, frescoed walls and vaulted ceilings. The visit ends in the library, rich in manuscripts, notably Homer and Virgil. Piazza Pio XI, ambrosiana.eu, from \u20ac10 KSRobMugelloItaly is all about culture \u2013 the place simply oozes art and history \u2013 but if you are seeking a more modern cultural experience I recommend a visit to the Moto GP \u2013 Italian style: Mugello in July. The passion of the crowds is contagious and you will certainly learn a lot about Italians. motogp.comSallyyoung", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: cultural highlights of Italy"},{"date": "2012-02-27T16:25:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Last week the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights delivered judgment in an important case about one of the most topical migration issues: irregular migrants intercepted in the Mediterranean by ECHR state parties. In the case of Hirsi Jamaa and others, the court found, unanimously, that Italy had violated three Articles of the ECHR.The applicants in the case were 11 Somalians and 13 Eritreans who had been intercepted by the Italian coastguard in May 2009 when trying to cross the Mediterranean. They were brought to Tripoli in Libya and handed over to the Libyan authorities under an Italo-Libyan agreement. Their identities were not checked during their time on board of the Italian vessels.First, the Grand Chamber had to decide whether the applicants fell within Italy's jurisdiction (Article 1 ECHR). Italy denied that by taking them on board it had exercised \"absolute and exclusive control\" over the applicants. Rather, it argued that it had been obliged under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to save human lives on the high seas. This in itself, in Italy's view, did not create a jurisdictional link between Italy and the rescued.The Grand Chamber disagreed. First, it confirmed that under the law of the sea, and under Italian law for that matter, a ship on the high seas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the flag state. Secondly, states cannot avoid being held responsible under the ECHR by framing an act as a rescue operation under the law of the sea. Thirdly, the events took place on vessels of Italy's armed forces manned by a crew of Italian military personnel. The applicants were thus under continuous and exclusive de jure and de facto control of Italy. Thus, they fell within the jurisdiction of that state for the whole period that they found themselves on those Italian vesssels. One could say here, that a causal legal chain of events starts to operate once a ship operated by a state party's authorities catch sight of a group of people in danger at sea: the law of the sea requires to save them, and as a result these people are brought within the jurisdiction of that state under the ECHR. Put differently, any state attempt to push back irregular migration at sea rather than on land does not absolve a state from its human rights responsibilities.Once this preliminary matter was solved, the court turned to the complaint of the violation of non-refoulement (the prohibition of being sent back to places where there is a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment). The court found two violations of Article 3 ECHR. First, it concluded that Italy had violated the Convention by exposing the applicants to danger in Libya itself. According to many reliable UN, Council of Europe, and NGO sources, even in the spring of 2009, it was \"well-known and easy to verify\" (para. 131) that irregular migrants faced great dangers in Libya. The fact that Libya had assured Italy in a bilateral agreeement that it would deal with such migrants in conformity with international law did not detract from that. Crucially, even if the persons involved do not explicitly ask the state on whose ship they find themselves for asylum, it is still the state's own obligation under the ECHR to check whether they would not face treatment in violation of article 3. Again, this is very important in practice: by just avoiding to even try to find out rescued people's nationality or legal status, a state cannot avoid being held to account under the European convention. Secondly, it also found a violation by the fact that he applicants had been exposed to the risk of being sent onwards from Libya (the intermediary country) to their countries of origin: Somalia and Eritrea. It is for the state (para. 147):to ensure that the intermediary country offers sufficient guarantees to prevent the person concerned being removed to his country of origin without an assessment of the risks faced. The Court observes that that obligation is all the more important when, as in the instant case, the intermediary country is not a State party to the Convention.(emphasis added)First off, the court noted that both countries, Eritrea and Somalia, faced \"widespread serious problems of insecurity\" (para. 151). Secondly and crucially, Italy (para. 156):knew or should have known that there were insufficient guarantees protecting the parties concerned from the risk of being arbitrarily returned to their countries of origin, having regard in particular to the lack of any asylum procedure and the impossibility of making the Libyan authorities recognise the refugee status granted by the UNHCR.Thus states cannot simply wash their hands of a situation like this by failing to acquire information.Also, the court for only the second time ever found a violation of the prohibition of collective expulsion of aliens (Article 4 of Protocol 4) - the first time was in 2002 in the case of \u010conka v Belgium, on a group of expulsed Slovak Roma. In Hirsi Jamaa, the court for the first time had to decide whether this prohibition also applied to removing aliens extraterritorially. It answered that question in the affirmative: Article 4 Protocol 4 contains no reference to \"territory\" nor do the travaux pr\u00e9paratoires point in that direction. And then follows a very important paragraph in the court's reasoning (para. 177): The Court has already found that, according to the established case-law of the Commission and of the Court, the purpose of Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 is to prevent States being able to remove certain aliens without examining their personal circumstances and, consequently, without enabling them to put forward their arguments against the measure taken by the relevant authority. If, therefore, Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 were to apply only to collective expulsions from the national territory of the States Parties to the Convention, a significant component of contemporary migratory patterns would not fall within the ambit of that provision, notwithstanding the fact that the conduct it is intended to prohibit can occur outside national territory and in particular, as in the instant case, on the high seas. Article 4 would thus be ineffective in practice with regard to such situations, which, however, are on the increase. The consequence of that would be that migrants having taken to the sea, often risking their lives, and not having managed to reach the borders of a State, would not be entitled to an examination of their personal circumstances before being expelled, unlike those travelling by land.Consequently, by not carrying out any form of individual assessment whatsoever of the persons involved, the handing over of the applicants to Libya from the Italian ship amounted to a collective expulsion.Finally, the court found a violation of the right to an effective remedy (Article 13 ECHR) in conjunction with the aforementioned articles. The applicants had had no access to any procedure. There were no legal advisers or interpreters on board nor were they given information in general about what was going to happen. As to the legal consequences, the court ruled under Article 46 of the Convention (obligation to abide by the court's judgments, a provision not applied very often) that Italy (para. 211) \"must take all possible steps to obtains assurances from the Libyan authorities that the applicants will not be subjected to treatment incompatible with Article 3 of the convention or arbitrarily repatriated.\" In addition, each applicant was awarded, under Article 41 ECHR, 15,000 euros for non-pecuniary damage suffered.The Portuguese judge, Pinto de Albuquerque, attached a long concurring opinion to the judgment which goes into the linkages between the international human rights law and international refugee law. This was a very important judgment, upholding the absolute nature of the non-refoulement principle in the face of new ways of controlling migration flows by European states. It means that literally pushing back the problem further from a state's territory does not change that state's human rights obligations.", "tags": ["European court of human rights", "Italy", "Libya", "Refugees", "Human rights"], "title": "All at sea: Italy mistreated Mediterranean migrants | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:22:58Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Angela Merkel's desk is dominated by a portrait of Catherine II, the great German tsarina who began a written correspondence with Voltaire. Every now and then, even the German chancellor takes a break from economic relations and political advisors and gives herself some time to reflect. To this end, she occasionally brings together a few writers and academics, specialising in radically different disciplines and simply listens. Last summer, during one of these dinners, she was asked how long she would carry on demanding sacrifices from Greece. \"As long as the bags under Papandreou's eyes are smaller than mine,\" she replied.Regularly crowned the most powerful woman in the world in international surveys, Merkel is aware that, after her rapid ascent to become not only the first female chancellor, but also the youngest in German history, the euro crisis will be her most critical test. It is that which will determine whether Helmut Kohl's former pupil is worthy of a place in the history books, and whether or not it is adorned with flattering adjectives.However, the future of the single currency also depends on whether Germany can maintain its leadership role in Europe. Inevitably, it has provoked distrust in the rest of the continent: in which the chancellor's costly dilly-dallying during the debt crisis, led to remarks about a third world war in the British press. Even the new stability agreement, which has been subject to rigorous German accounting, incites fears that Europe is strangling its own growth potential.In 1990, it was Kohl who discovered the woman he called \"the girl\". Then a 36-year-old physics researcher, she had grown up behind the iron curtain, wore enormous skirts and sported the haircut of a medieval knight. Within a few months the chancellor had catapulted her to the top of federal politics. There, she soon showed herself to have a great capacity for diplomacy and to be an unusually fast learner. As the daughter of a protestant minister, she took advantage of the fact that parties such as the CDU/CSU were almost entirely dominated by men who underestimated her.It is common knowledge that, on her road to victory, she even pushed aside her mentor in 2000, when she called upon the party \u2013 then crushed by allegations it had obtained illicit funds \u2013 to liberate itself from the \"Father of Reunification\". But from 2005, when she took over the top job, Merkel has shown herself capable of being at the helm of a country that, since its entry into the euro, has lost the only symbol of power granted to it since the second world war: the deutschmark.The chancellor's habit of letting reason triumph over visionary impulses and Kohl-type breakaways is clear to see. It may possibly owe something to the after-effects of a motor problem in her legs, which forced her since childhood to plan the smallest of manoeuvres in advance. And, as she has herself declared, the experience of living under a communist dictatorship in East Germany has above all taught her to distrust everyone. This distrust, in turn, has fed into her proverbial caution and pragmatic approach towards European politics.A positive side to this pragmatism is shown in her attitude towards the European Central Bank and its extraordinary transactions \u2013 which more orthodox Germans continue to brand a violation of the treaties. The chancellor, however, is well aware it continues to be the only bulwark against an escalation of the crisis.And when Axel Weber, a candidate for the German presidency, unexpectedly withdrew from the contest in protest against the bank's new functions, Merkel backed the installation of the Italian Mario Draghi as its new head.The accession of the other \"super Mario\" \u2013 Monti, in Italy, which has served to bring that country more closely into the fold \u2013 has proved something of a relief for Merkel. Even the former head of the EU's antitrust body recently admitted that Merkel's mission is to \"make Italians more similar to Germans\". Who knows if she will succeed. And, above all, who knows if the Germans will then like us more.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel \u2013 the view from Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-11T16:48:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This chapel's renovated Giotto frescoes are breathtaking \u2013 every surface bursts with colour. Giotto was the first artist to portray Christ as a real person and the story of his life covers the walls. The entire wall above the entrance is covered by his terrifying depiction of the last judgement. Book ahead.Piazza Eremitani, cappelladegliscrovegni.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac6 KatharineSianMusic in CerianaThis medieval hilltop village has many attractions \u2013 fabulous food, mountain walks, but perhaps most unusual are the six choirs, famous for preserving their ancient regional singing tradition, involving polyphony \u2013 interweaving melodies. Go to the Easter festival, or even better the festival of Madonna della Villa in September, which starts with a torchlit procession to the chapel, and includes the choirs singing in the piazza. These are village events, not tourist spectacles, but the welcome to strangers is open and sincere.comune.ceriana.im.it/en-GBSquariallFesta della Madonna del Rosario, Cinque TerreWhen we arrived in Biassa last autumn, the small square in front of the church was packed with people of all ages and there were stalls selling local wine and chestnuts. Then a group of priests in green and gold robes emerged from the church, followed by the statue of Mary carried on the shoulders of half a dozen villagers and the rest of the congregation. The procession was accompanied by a group of musicians and we could hear it winding its way through the narrow streets of the village long after we left to continue our walk. It was a wonderful way to experience a tradition that dates back centuries.lecinqueterre.org/engRuby11Isola Bella, Lake Maggiore, Borromean islandsAll of the Borromean islands are magical, but Isola Bella, setting for the Palazzo Borromeo, is the crowning glory. The Borromean family employed the most accomplished architects and gardeners to transform a rocky crag into the setting for its magnificent baroque palace and Italianate gardens. A visit will provide a taste of how an aristocratic Italian family lived in the 17th century. The palace contains a wealth of treasure including paintings, sculptures and Flemish tapestries. borromeoturismo.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac5.50GdeanoukEtruscan Necropolis at TarquiniaOn a hilltop just outside the town are these painted Etruscan burial chambers which inspired DH Lawrence to write what was to be his final, most heartfelt travelogue, Sketches of Etruscan Places. Although there are more than 6,000 tombs, only about 15 are open to visitors each day. The wall paintings are surprisingly celebratory, depicting scenes of dancing, music, feasting and sex! The town's Tarquinia National Museum is devoted to Etruscan exhibits and sarcophagi excavated from the necropolis. Be sure not to miss the pair of winged horses from the pediment of a Tarquinian temple, one of the greatest Etruscan masterpieces ever discovered.necropoliditarquinia.it, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac4KSRobOstia Antica, RomeWhen the usual sites in Rome are heaving with people, Ostia Antica is a place of superb Roman sites which are blessedly peaceful. The site was once the sea port of ancient Rome but was silted up after the decline of the Roman Empire. Many buildings have been excavated and it is possible to spend a whole day here enjoying the sites and rural peace. We were there on a Saturday and it was not mobbed like the centre of Rome.archeoroma.beniculturali.it/en, \u20ac6.50pp, free to under-17s (closed Mondays)NataiesgranCa'Pesaro, VeniceThis splendid gallery on the Grand Canal \u2013 inexplicably absent from many online Venice guides \u2013 houses a delightful collection of 19th and 20th century art (as well as a smaller Oriental Art Museum on the top floor). While the great majority of the works are by Italian artists possibly less well-known to a general audience, some big international names are also represented, with fine pieces by Klimt, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee and Moore.Sestiere Santa Croce, capesaro.visitmuve.it/en/home, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac5.50StanleyAccringtonAmbrosiana library and art gallery, MilanIf you only have time to see one gallery in Milan, make it this one. Set up in 1618, it is home to more than 1,500 paintings by artists such as Raphael, Luini, Titian, Caravaggio, Botticelli and Bruegel. It also has a large collection of work by da Vinci including his Codex Atlanticus. The building is a fine example of Lombard architecture, with mullioned windows, frescoed walls and vaulted ceilings. The visit ends in the library, rich in manuscripts, notably Homer and Virgil. Piazza Pio XI, ambrosiana.eu, from \u20ac10 KSRobMugelloItaly is all about culture \u2013 the place simply oozes art and history \u2013 but if you are seeking a more modern cultural experience I recommend a visit to the Moto GP \u2013 Italian style: Mugello in July. The passion of the crowds is contagious and you will certainly learn a lot about Italians. motogp.comSallyyoung", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: cultural highlights of Italy"},{"date": "2012-02-27T16:25:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Last week the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights delivered judgment in an important case about one of the most topical migration issues: irregular migrants intercepted in the Mediterranean by ECHR state parties. In the case of Hirsi Jamaa and others, the court found, unanimously, that Italy had violated three Articles of the ECHR.The applicants in the case were 11 Somalians and 13 Eritreans who had been intercepted by the Italian coastguard in May 2009 when trying to cross the Mediterranean. They were brought to Tripoli in Libya and handed over to the Libyan authorities under an Italo-Libyan agreement. Their identities were not checked during their time on board of the Italian vessels.First, the Grand Chamber had to decide whether the applicants fell within Italy's jurisdiction (Article 1 ECHR). Italy denied that by taking them on board it had exercised \"absolute and exclusive control\" over the applicants. Rather, it argued that it had been obliged under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to save human lives on the high seas. This in itself, in Italy's view, did not create a jurisdictional link between Italy and the rescued.The Grand Chamber disagreed. First, it confirmed that under the law of the sea, and under Italian law for that matter, a ship on the high seas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the flag state. Secondly, states cannot avoid being held responsible under the ECHR by framing an act as a rescue operation under the law of the sea. Thirdly, the events took place on vessels of Italy's armed forces manned by a crew of Italian military personnel. The applicants were thus under continuous and exclusive de jure and de facto control of Italy. Thus, they fell within the jurisdiction of that state for the whole period that they found themselves on those Italian vesssels. One could say here, that a causal legal chain of events starts to operate once a ship operated by a state party's authorities catch sight of a group of people in danger at sea: the law of the sea requires to save them, and as a result these people are brought within the jurisdiction of that state under the ECHR. Put differently, any state attempt to push back irregular migration at sea rather than on land does not absolve a state from its human rights responsibilities.Once this preliminary matter was solved, the court turned to the complaint of the violation of non-refoulement (the prohibition of being sent back to places where there is a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment). The court found two violations of Article 3 ECHR. First, it concluded that Italy had violated the Convention by exposing the applicants to danger in Libya itself. According to many reliable UN, Council of Europe, and NGO sources, even in the spring of 2009, it was \"well-known and easy to verify\" (para. 131) that irregular migrants faced great dangers in Libya. The fact that Libya had assured Italy in a bilateral agreeement that it would deal with such migrants in conformity with international law did not detract from that. Crucially, even if the persons involved do not explicitly ask the state on whose ship they find themselves for asylum, it is still the state's own obligation under the ECHR to check whether they would not face treatment in violation of article 3. Again, this is very important in practice: by just avoiding to even try to find out rescued people's nationality or legal status, a state cannot avoid being held to account under the European convention. Secondly, it also found a violation by the fact that he applicants had been exposed to the risk of being sent onwards from Libya (the intermediary country) to their countries of origin: Somalia and Eritrea. It is for the state (para. 147):to ensure that the intermediary country offers sufficient guarantees to prevent the person concerned being removed to his country of origin without an assessment of the risks faced. The Court observes that that obligation is all the more important when, as in the instant case, the intermediary country is not a State party to the Convention.(emphasis added)First off, the court noted that both countries, Eritrea and Somalia, faced \"widespread serious problems of insecurity\" (para. 151). Secondly and crucially, Italy (para. 156):knew or should have known that there were insufficient guarantees protecting the parties concerned from the risk of being arbitrarily returned to their countries of origin, having regard in particular to the lack of any asylum procedure and the impossibility of making the Libyan authorities recognise the refugee status granted by the UNHCR.Thus states cannot simply wash their hands of a situation like this by failing to acquire information.Also, the court for only the second time ever found a violation of the prohibition of collective expulsion of aliens (Article 4 of Protocol 4) - the first time was in 2002 in the case of \u010conka v Belgium, on a group of expulsed Slovak Roma. In Hirsi Jamaa, the court for the first time had to decide whether this prohibition also applied to removing aliens extraterritorially. It answered that question in the affirmative: Article 4 Protocol 4 contains no reference to \"territory\" nor do the travaux pr\u00e9paratoires point in that direction. And then follows a very important paragraph in the court's reasoning (para. 177): The Court has already found that, according to the established case-law of the Commission and of the Court, the purpose of Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 is to prevent States being able to remove certain aliens without examining their personal circumstances and, consequently, without enabling them to put forward their arguments against the measure taken by the relevant authority. If, therefore, Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 were to apply only to collective expulsions from the national territory of the States Parties to the Convention, a significant component of contemporary migratory patterns would not fall within the ambit of that provision, notwithstanding the fact that the conduct it is intended to prohibit can occur outside national territory and in particular, as in the instant case, on the high seas. Article 4 would thus be ineffective in practice with regard to such situations, which, however, are on the increase. The consequence of that would be that migrants having taken to the sea, often risking their lives, and not having managed to reach the borders of a State, would not be entitled to an examination of their personal circumstances before being expelled, unlike those travelling by land.Consequently, by not carrying out any form of individual assessment whatsoever of the persons involved, the handing over of the applicants to Libya from the Italian ship amounted to a collective expulsion.Finally, the court found a violation of the right to an effective remedy (Article 13 ECHR) in conjunction with the aforementioned articles. The applicants had had no access to any procedure. There were no legal advisers or interpreters on board nor were they given information in general about what was going to happen. As to the legal consequences, the court ruled under Article 46 of the Convention (obligation to abide by the court's judgments, a provision not applied very often) that Italy (para. 211) \"must take all possible steps to obtains assurances from the Libyan authorities that the applicants will not be subjected to treatment incompatible with Article 3 of the convention or arbitrarily repatriated.\" In addition, each applicant was awarded, under Article 41 ECHR, 15,000 euros for non-pecuniary damage suffered.The Portuguese judge, Pinto de Albuquerque, attached a long concurring opinion to the judgment which goes into the linkages between the international human rights law and international refugee law. This was a very important judgment, upholding the absolute nature of the non-refoulement principle in the face of new ways of controlling migration flows by European states. It means that literally pushing back the problem further from a state's territory does not change that state's human rights obligations.", "tags": ["European court of human rights", "Italy", "Libya", "Refugees", "Human rights"], "title": "All at sea: Italy mistreated Mediterranean migrants | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:22:58Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Angela Merkel's desk is dominated by a portrait of Catherine II, the great German tsarina who began a written correspondence with Voltaire. Every now and then, even the German chancellor takes a break from economic relations and political advisors and gives herself some time to reflect. To this end, she occasionally brings together a few writers and academics, specialising in radically different disciplines and simply listens. Last summer, during one of these dinners, she was asked how long she would carry on demanding sacrifices from Greece. \"As long as the bags under Papandreou's eyes are smaller than mine,\" she replied.Regularly crowned the most powerful woman in the world in international surveys, Merkel is aware that, after her rapid ascent to become not only the first female chancellor, but also the youngest in German history, the euro crisis will be her most critical test. It is that which will determine whether Helmut Kohl's former pupil is worthy of a place in the history books, and whether or not it is adorned with flattering adjectives.However, the future of the single currency also depends on whether Germany can maintain its leadership role in Europe. Inevitably, it has provoked distrust in the rest of the continent: in which the chancellor's costly dilly-dallying during the debt crisis, led to remarks about a third world war in the British press. Even the new stability agreement, which has been subject to rigorous German accounting, incites fears that Europe is strangling its own growth potential.In 1990, it was Kohl who discovered the woman he called \"the girl\". Then a 36-year-old physics researcher, she had grown up behind the iron curtain, wore enormous skirts and sported the haircut of a medieval knight. Within a few months the chancellor had catapulted her to the top of federal politics. There, she soon showed herself to have a great capacity for diplomacy and to be an unusually fast learner. As the daughter of a protestant minister, she took advantage of the fact that parties such as the CDU/CSU were almost entirely dominated by men who underestimated her.It is common knowledge that, on her road to victory, she even pushed aside her mentor in 2000, when she called upon the party \u2013 then crushed by allegations it had obtained illicit funds \u2013 to liberate itself from the \"Father of Reunification\". But from 2005, when she took over the top job, Merkel has shown herself capable of being at the helm of a country that, since its entry into the euro, has lost the only symbol of power granted to it since the second world war: the deutschmark.The chancellor's habit of letting reason triumph over visionary impulses and Kohl-type breakaways is clear to see. It may possibly owe something to the after-effects of a motor problem in her legs, which forced her since childhood to plan the smallest of manoeuvres in advance. And, as she has herself declared, the experience of living under a communist dictatorship in East Germany has above all taught her to distrust everyone. This distrust, in turn, has fed into her proverbial caution and pragmatic approach towards European politics.A positive side to this pragmatism is shown in her attitude towards the European Central Bank and its extraordinary transactions \u2013 which more orthodox Germans continue to brand a violation of the treaties. The chancellor, however, is well aware it continues to be the only bulwark against an escalation of the crisis.And when Axel Weber, a candidate for the German presidency, unexpectedly withdrew from the contest in protest against the bank's new functions, Merkel backed the installation of the Italian Mario Draghi as its new head.The accession of the other \"super Mario\" \u2013 Monti, in Italy, which has served to bring that country more closely into the fold \u2013 has proved something of a relief for Merkel. Even the former head of the EU's antitrust body recently admitted that Merkel's mission is to \"make Italians more similar to Germans\". Who knows if she will succeed. And, above all, who knows if the Germans will then like us more.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel \u2013 the view from Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-16T09:46:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A sixth body has been found on the stricken Costa Concordia which crashed into rocks off Italy's Tuscan coast on Friday night.Unconfirmed reports suggest that a man wearing what appeared to be a lifejacket was found in a corridor still above water in the ship early on Monday. The discovery came as the ship's captain, Francesco Schettino, faced further questioning by prosecutors and its owners prepared to give their explanations for the disaster at the Mediterranean island of Giglio. Sixteen people remain unaccounted for.As survivors from the 4,200 passengers and crew gave their accounts of the disaster, divers continued to search submerged areas of the vessel and rescue leaders began to consider when they might have to wind down their efforts and concentrate on removing fuel from the liner.Costa Cruises, the company that operated the liner, has said \"preliminary indications\" suggested Schettino may have been guilty of \"significant human error\".In a statement it said: \"The route of the vessel appears to have been too close to the shore, and the captain's judgment in handling the emergency appears to have not followed standard Costa procedures.\"Prosecutors have also said the crew mishandled the emergency, delaying the start of the evacuation until an hour after the accident and there have also been reports that the captain was already ashore just after midnight, well before the last passengers were evacuated.Schettino, who is reportedly held on suspicion of multiple manslaughter and abandoning ship, told Italian television he was not to blame, claiming nautical charts did not show the rocks which ripped a 160ft gash in the ship's hull. Claims have also been made that the captain was seen saluting a colleague or former colleague on shore.All 23 British passengers and 12 crew members on board the Costa Concordia survived.Cruise giant Carnival, which owns Costa Cruises, said on Monday the loss of the ship would wipe up to \u00a362m from its profits this year. It would be out of service until at the least the end of its financial year on 30 November, costing it from $85m-95m this year. It was too early to calculate other costs but the company was insured for $40m (\u00a326.1m) for the vessel.Micky Arison, chairman and chief executive of Carnival, said: \"At this time, our priority is the safety of our passengers and crew.\"We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our hearts go out to everyone affected by the grounding of the Costa Concordia and especially to the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives. They will remain in our thoughts and prayers.\"Shares in Carnival were down 21% on Monday, wiping nearly \u00a31bn from its market value. Its stock had already fallen about 30% over the previous year as the weak economic climate hit demand for cruises. It owns 11 brands, including P&O, Cunard and Princess Cruises.", "tags": ["Costa Concordia", "Italy", "Water transport", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy cruise ship crash: sixth body found"},{"date": "2012-03-09T22:44:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "If you've always wanted to sleep in a fairytale castle, you'll love this new horsey holiday staying in not one, not two, but three impressive castles. On a guided trip for intermediate and advanced riders, you'll spend the first three nights in an ivy-covered room at the 17th-century Castello di Santa Cristina, riding out to lakes for swimming and waterside lunches. Then you'll ride on to the Orsini Fortress, high above the Etruscan town of Sorano, where you'll stay for two nights. The final castle is in the centre of the little town of Proceno, and has a swimming pool with panoramic terraces \u2013 medieval living with a touch of modern luxury.\u2022 From \u00a31,537pp for a week full-board, departures in June and September, theridingcompany.comCycling isn't the most obvious way to get to Venice, but it makes sense in a strange way. The string of long, flat, narrow islands that separate the lagoon from the Adriatic are perfect for cyclists \u2013 you can take your bike on the short boat rides between islands, then simply lock it up when you get to the Lido and take a vaporetto to Venice proper. Indeed, that is the last leg of a new independent cycling route from Inntravel, which starts in swanky Vicenza and takes in venerable Padova and the fishing port of Chioggia. On the way to Venice, the route passes through a pretty landscape of gentle green hills and valleys. Accommodation is in three- and four-star hotels, and you can spend a night or two in Venice as an optional add-on. \u2022 From \u00a3825pp for six nights' B&B, including cycle hire and luggage transportation, inntravel.co.ukSpend an idyllic week cruising around the gorgeous Amalfi coast on your very own yacht. Bareboat Sailing Holidays has yachts for charter for those with sailing qualifications, while the rest of us can hire a skipper to do the hard work as we kick back on deck or swim in the sea. Either way, the Bay of Naples and beyond is your oyster. Drop anchor at Capri, volcanic Ischia or the other Phlegrean islands; work your way along the Amalfi coastal resorts of Sorrento, Positano and Ravello; or head north to the Pontine islands. The area is dotted with great beaches and rugged landscapes, plus top-notch nightlife for party animals.\u2022 A six-berth yacht costs from \u00a31,434 for a week in June, starting from Salerno or Procida, bareboatsailingholidays.comMake like Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck on a Vespa holiday for two. Don't worry, unlike the Roman Holiday stars you get one each: matching shiny red scooters for exploring the rolling hills of Tuscany. You'll stay in a luxury villa in a converted 14th-century building in Radda in Chianti, a medieval town between Siena and Florence. It's a beautiful base for exploring the surrounding vineyards and villages, and you'll be provided with lots of local information, maps and a GPS so you can hit the open road with confidence. There is also a guided group version of the holiday if you'd rather embrace your inner biker and travel in a pack.\u2022 From around \u20ac1,390pp for a week's all-inclusive stay, excluding flights, italybyvespa.comForgo creature comforts on a sea kayaking adventure around Sardinia. You're eased in gently with three days' paddling around little islands and along a river, staying in family-run hotels, before heading off on an expedition along the wild coastline. You'll spend two nights camping under the stars on deserted beaches, eating simple Sardinian food, snorkelling, rock climbing and watching the sun set over the Med. The last night is spent in a lovely agriturismo overlooking the sea, refuelling with a four-course dinner followed by a nice soft bed.\u2022 From \u00a3995pp for seven days, including accommodation, meals and equipment but excluding flights, responsibletravel.comDiscover the black volcanic beaches of the rocky Aeolian islands off Sicily on a self-guided walking trip. You'll spend four nights in a converted country house on Lipari, the main island in the archipelago, giving you plenty of time to hop over to spectacular Stromboli, where the volcano regularly erupts, and to the smaller Vulcano and relaxed Salina. After that it's off to a 400-year-old mansion in Sicily for walks with great views of Mount Etna, including one on the flanks of Europe's largest volcano. But it's not all walking and volcanoes \u2013 there are plenty of picturesque fishing villages, Roman ruins and spots for swimming, too.\u2022 From \u00a3625pp for eight days' B&B, excluding flights, for departures in April and October, walksworldwide.com", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Road trips", "Sailing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "Alternative tours of Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-27T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "I've never been so relieved as when Dan, one of the muscle-bound personal trainers on the Fitscape week-long holiday in northern Italy, said I could bunk off on the first day.Arriving catatonically knackered, barely able to utter a syllable, I was in terror at the sight of the programme: dawn runs, at least\u00a0five hours' cardio a day, an alarming amount of \"burpees\" (squat thrusts). So when Dan said I should \"listen to my body\", I did just that and slept for 17 hours.After that, though, on Fitscape there's no escape. Fitscape is sister company to the better-known In:spa (inspa-retreats.com) \u2013 but here the focus is on fitness, cardio and strength\u00a0rather than detoxing and yoga. It is sort of like a boot camp, but\u00a0without the deprivation \u2013 I was going to say without the unpleasantness, but that's not exactly right. You stay in gorgeous hotels. I was at the Rosa Alpina, in the Dolomites, with large rooms, plump cushions, thick duvets, good toiletries, nice view. The food is delicious \u2013 big breakfast buffet, vast lunch, afternoon snacks (fruit, nuts and seeds) and tasty, gigantic, three-course dinners. That's three courses including dessert. With bread, if you want it. And wine, if you'll pay for it.So there are no former soldiers screaming at you to work harder, and\u00a0no starvation rations, and no chores. You can even choose not to take part in sessions.But the schedule is intense, and you're encouraged to join in: a run first thing, boxing classes, circuits every day, lessons on running technique, core stability workouts, endless mountain hikes (admittedly through mountains and forests; the area is used for skiing in the winter, when Fitscape also runs skiing-training holidays). From day three to day five I\u00a0was so stiff\u00a0I found walking downstairs almost\u00a0physically impossible, despite\u00a0the stretching sessions at the end of each day.It was, though, a lot of fun; especially the dance classes, which were a special request of the group since one of the trainers had spent time\u00a0being a dancer in the West End\u00a0show Stomp. His routines, from\u00a0hip\u2011hop to 70s disco, were a highlight,\u00a0if not the hardest workout of\u00a0the week. In fact all three experienced trainers were excellent, and gave lots\u00a0of attention to each guest; they worked hard with us on our\u00a0programme and our motivation. The well-heeled, mostly female guests\u00a0got on well, and there was much\u00a0encouraging of each other alongside the racing each other. The last-night celebration was a delight, and all that exercise lent a sort of pheromone-heady euphoria to the whole experience. I loved it.Some of my fellow guests felt, in fact, that it was too much fun \u2013 there is\u00a0a conflict between all those puddings and all that working out, and\u00a0the people who enjoyed it most were those who came to exercise, and to get out of their heads, rather than with specific ideas about losing weight. (No one is going to force you to do the classes, and no one is going to tell you not to eat.) Over such an intense week you get a real sense of your fitness improving quite\u00a0dramatically, and Fitscape is excellent if you want to get your fitness regime back on track: when you've been doing five or six hours' hardcore exercise each day, then squeezing the odd hour in when you\u00a0get home really doesn't feel like much at all. Do it!\u2022 Fitscape fitness retreats (020-8968 0501, fitscape.co.uk) cost \u00a31,695 per\u00a0week, including accommodation, all\u00a0meals, fitness sessions, personal fitness consultation and airport transfers. Locations for 2012 include the\u00a0Italian Dolomites, Andaluc\u00eda and\u00a0Provence. As a special offer, anyone\u00a0who books before 31 January will receive a free flight to any Fitscape\u00a0destination", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Learning holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Fitness"], "title": "Fitness camp in northern Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-13T22:45:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yoga may be all about balance, but yoga holidays tend to fall into two extremes: hippy or chic; communal bathrooms and mountains of millet, or Heidi Klein kaftans and a sprinkling of specially harvested lavender oil so expensive it makes your third eye water. Until now.Set up by a former banker who wanted a healthy holiday without the hair-shirt or the hassle, Destination Yoga aims to combine top-class instruction with beautiful locations and accommodation.And where better than southern Italy, where self-denial and penance are sins outside the confession box? On a hillside in Puglia's Itria Valley, surrounded by flower-filled meadows, ancient oaks and olive trees, Santa Maria del Sole (St Mary of the Sun), originally a monastery, then a farmhouse, is now a sanctuary dedicated to yoga and meditation. With its cluster of trulli (the fondant-icing domes that give the region its distinctive fairytale appearance), tiny white chapel, generous pool and indoor and outdoor yoga studios, it is, in short, a scrap of heaven fallen into Italy's notoriously un-angelic heel.The family who own it are suitably otherworldly: Giulia, a modern-day healer with a halo of blonde hair; her partner, Salvatore; and her two sons, PJ and Marco, as wholesome as muesli (apparently) and as handsome as models in an Armani ad. Not to forget the two kittens, who sleep in the chapel, and the once-wild dog who couldn't bear to leave \u2013 and who can blame her? This place isn't for mere mortals, but it is miraculous what a week can do.Staying in a trullo, with its smooth, white, vaulted ceiling, is rather like sleeping in an egg \u2013 or so I imagine. And just as nurturing.Decorated with monastic simplicity, the trulli add to the contemplative atmosphere and the sense of being somewhere special.With only the insect-screen pulled across the little arched doorway, I would fall asleep to the night-time sounds of the Puglian meadow and wake to the Mediterranean sunshine streaming through the high window \u2013 making the prospect of a wake-up yoga session appealing in a way that the combined efforts of John Humphrys and the Heathrow flight path fail to do at home.Classes started at a civilised 7.45am (I've been on yoga trips where you were saluting the sun hours before it was up to notice) and were held in an airy converted barn with views over the fields. Our days were structured (for which read lounging by the pool or in a hammock) around a rigorous two-hour morning session and another more restorative two-hour class at 5pm. With 15 hectares of fields and forests to explore, it was always possible to find a patch of sunny solitude, or to retreat to your trullo for a siesta.If place is important in a yoga holiday, the teaching is crucial: you don't want to feel you've been stuck at a week-long ante-natal class, but it isn't supposed to be a boot camp either. Our tuition was from Sophie Lewis, a teacher at the Life Centre in Notting Hill; she is also a triathlon instructor and a muralist, restoring frescoes in old buildings. Life choices, anyone? Her down-to-earth approach (imagine if BBC economics editor Stephanie Flanders taught yoga) is both unintimidating and challenging: there's no whiff of patchouli or hint of Gwynnie P about her classes.We were nine students in total, of varying abilities \u2013 from complete beginners to old-timers \u2013 and ages. And everyone was stretched, in all senses of the word. The combination of a hedge-fund manager, a solicitor, an international charity worker and a psychologist meant that the conversation at mealtimes and around the pool was much more likely to be about politics or the credit crunch than postures or chakras.The waftiest that things got \u2013 for those, like me, who are incense-and-nonsense intolerant \u2013 was a half-hour introduction to ayurverdic medicine, which was fun in the way questionnaires about yourself always are. I learnt that the reason I couldn't work the shower (I had assumed the water was cold for character-building purposes) is because I am predominantly a vata type \u2013 an airhead, in other words.On most yoga holidays the food is as bland and self-righteous as the ubiquitous Paulo Coelho novels. Not here. If the River Caf\u00e9 had a yoga studio, this is what it might be like \u2013 but cheaper and sunnier. The food was strictly organic (as much as possible grown in the gardens), vegetarian and wheat-free, which, happily, didn't mean no pizza or pasta. And there were jugs of wine with supper!The cook, the luminous Puglian-born Ilaria, believes that food cooked in a bad temper and without love will make people sick (go figure, Gordon Ramsay). Before each meal, in front of a table laden with fat tomatoes, bowls of pale creamy risotto and gleaming zucchini, the lovely Ilaria would explain the provenance and ingredients of each dish.Just as the food was deliciously Italian, the rest of the holiday offered chances to get under the skin of this part of Italy, with Marco and PJ as enthusiastic guides (did I mention that they are quite good-looking?).Even our transport had good vibrations: our excursions were made in a beaten-up mini-van once owned by influential guru Sai Baba. One day \u2013 after morning yoga, of course \u2013 we visited the historic city of Ostuni on our way to the Adriatic coast. Another morning was spent exploring the market and shops in the nearby town of Martina Franca, the group buzzing after an illicit shot of coffee granita, a local speciality.On our last evening we all went to a local restaurant, and although this was our first meal not prepared by Ilaria, the chef must have been in a very good mood. Every face glowed in a way that can't simply be accounted for by candlelight, healthy food or a week in the sun.No grievance goes unshared in a group holiday, especially after a glass of wine or two, so it's a good sign that several of the guests were on their second or third trip with Destination Yoga, and that many were already planning to return with Sophie to Santa Maria in the autumn.There is nothing like an intense (and yup, any sporty people who've bothered to read this far, it is intense) week of yoga, whatever level you are at, to make you feel you've been taken apart, dusted, oiled and put back together again tighter, straighter and saner than before.Forget spa breaks: a yoga holiday leaves you with that blissed-out, smoothed-out feeling that no amount of whale music, massage and carrot juice is ever going to deliver. And you don't have to be a celebrity to do it in style. Namaste to that.\u2022 Destination Yoga's next course in Puglia (0845 458 0723, destinationyoga.co.uk) is on 2-9 August, with prices from \u00a3895pp based on two sharing, including all classes, full-board accommodation and transfers but excluding flights. Sophie Lewis's next course in Puglia is on 24 September-1 October. Save \u00a350pp on any course if you book before 31 January. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Brindisi from around \u00a3225 return in August", "tags": ["Health and fitness holidays", "Italy holidays", "Learning holidays", "Yoga", "Travel", "Fitness", "Yoga holidays"], "title": "Healthy holidays: yoga in Italy"},{"date": "2012-03-11T16:48:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This chapel's renovated Giotto frescoes are breathtaking \u2013 every surface bursts with colour. Giotto was the first artist to portray Christ as a real person and the story of his life covers the walls. The entire wall above the entrance is covered by his terrifying depiction of the last judgement. Book ahead.Piazza Eremitani, cappelladegliscrovegni.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac6 KatharineSianMusic in CerianaThis medieval hilltop village has many attractions \u2013 fabulous food, mountain walks, but perhaps most unusual are the six choirs, famous for preserving their ancient regional singing tradition, involving polyphony \u2013 interweaving melodies. Go to the Easter festival, or even better the festival of Madonna della Villa in September, which starts with a torchlit procession to the chapel, and includes the choirs singing in the piazza. These are village events, not tourist spectacles, but the welcome to strangers is open and sincere.comune.ceriana.im.it/en-GBSquariallFesta della Madonna del Rosario, Cinque TerreWhen we arrived in Biassa last autumn, the small square in front of the church was packed with people of all ages and there were stalls selling local wine and chestnuts. Then a group of priests in green and gold robes emerged from the church, followed by the statue of Mary carried on the shoulders of half a dozen villagers and the rest of the congregation. The procession was accompanied by a group of musicians and we could hear it winding its way through the narrow streets of the village long after we left to continue our walk. It was a wonderful way to experience a tradition that dates back centuries.lecinqueterre.org/engRuby11Isola Bella, Lake Maggiore, Borromean islandsAll of the Borromean islands are magical, but Isola Bella, setting for the Palazzo Borromeo, is the crowning glory. The Borromean family employed the most accomplished architects and gardeners to transform a rocky crag into the setting for its magnificent baroque palace and Italianate gardens. A visit will provide a taste of how an aristocratic Italian family lived in the 17th century. The palace contains a wealth of treasure including paintings, sculptures and Flemish tapestries. borromeoturismo.it, adults \u20ac13, children \u20ac5.50GdeanoukEtruscan Necropolis at TarquiniaOn a hilltop just outside the town are these painted Etruscan burial chambers which inspired DH Lawrence to write what was to be his final, most heartfelt travelogue, Sketches of Etruscan Places. Although there are more than 6,000 tombs, only about 15 are open to visitors each day. The wall paintings are surprisingly celebratory, depicting scenes of dancing, music, feasting and sex! The town's Tarquinia National Museum is devoted to Etruscan exhibits and sarcophagi excavated from the necropolis. Be sure not to miss the pair of winged horses from the pediment of a Tarquinian temple, one of the greatest Etruscan masterpieces ever discovered.necropoliditarquinia.it, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac4KSRobOstia Antica, RomeWhen the usual sites in Rome are heaving with people, Ostia Antica is a place of superb Roman sites which are blessedly peaceful. The site was once the sea port of ancient Rome but was silted up after the decline of the Roman Empire. Many buildings have been excavated and it is possible to spend a whole day here enjoying the sites and rural peace. We were there on a Saturday and it was not mobbed like the centre of Rome.archeoroma.beniculturali.it/en, \u20ac6.50pp, free to under-17s (closed Mondays)NataiesgranCa'Pesaro, VeniceThis splendid gallery on the Grand Canal \u2013 inexplicably absent from many online Venice guides \u2013 houses a delightful collection of 19th and 20th century art (as well as a smaller Oriental Art Museum on the top floor). While the great majority of the works are by Italian artists possibly less well-known to a general audience, some big international names are also represented, with fine pieces by Klimt, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee and Moore.Sestiere Santa Croce, capesaro.visitmuve.it/en/home, adults \u20ac8, children \u20ac5.50StanleyAccringtonAmbrosiana library and art gallery, MilanIf you only have time to see one gallery in Milan, make it this one. Set up in 1618, it is home to more than 1,500 paintings by artists such as Raphael, Luini, Titian, Caravaggio, Botticelli and Bruegel. It also has a large collection of work by da Vinci including his Codex Atlanticus. The building is a fine example of Lombard architecture, with mullioned windows, frescoed walls and vaulted ceilings. The visit ends in the library, rich in manuscripts, notably Homer and Virgil. Piazza Pio XI, ambrosiana.eu, from \u20ac10 KSRobMugelloItaly is all about culture \u2013 the place simply oozes art and history \u2013 but if you are seeking a more modern cultural experience I recommend a visit to the Moto GP \u2013 Italian style: Mugello in July. The passion of the crowds is contagious and you will certainly learn a lot about Italians. motogp.comSallyyoung", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: cultural highlights of Italy"},{"date": "2012-02-27T16:25:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Last week the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights delivered judgment in an important case about one of the most topical migration issues: irregular migrants intercepted in the Mediterranean by ECHR state parties. In the case of Hirsi Jamaa and others, the court found, unanimously, that Italy had violated three Articles of the ECHR.The applicants in the case were 11 Somalians and 13 Eritreans who had been intercepted by the Italian coastguard in May 2009 when trying to cross the Mediterranean. They were brought to Tripoli in Libya and handed over to the Libyan authorities under an Italo-Libyan agreement. Their identities were not checked during their time on board of the Italian vessels.First, the Grand Chamber had to decide whether the applicants fell within Italy's jurisdiction (Article 1 ECHR). Italy denied that by taking them on board it had exercised \"absolute and exclusive control\" over the applicants. Rather, it argued that it had been obliged under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea to save human lives on the high seas. This in itself, in Italy's view, did not create a jurisdictional link between Italy and the rescued.The Grand Chamber disagreed. First, it confirmed that under the law of the sea, and under Italian law for that matter, a ship on the high seas is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the flag state. Secondly, states cannot avoid being held responsible under the ECHR by framing an act as a rescue operation under the law of the sea. Thirdly, the events took place on vessels of Italy's armed forces manned by a crew of Italian military personnel. The applicants were thus under continuous and exclusive de jure and de facto control of Italy. Thus, they fell within the jurisdiction of that state for the whole period that they found themselves on those Italian vesssels. One could say here, that a causal legal chain of events starts to operate once a ship operated by a state party's authorities catch sight of a group of people in danger at sea: the law of the sea requires to save them, and as a result these people are brought within the jurisdiction of that state under the ECHR. Put differently, any state attempt to push back irregular migration at sea rather than on land does not absolve a state from its human rights responsibilities.Once this preliminary matter was solved, the court turned to the complaint of the violation of non-refoulement (the prohibition of being sent back to places where there is a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment). The court found two violations of Article 3 ECHR. First, it concluded that Italy had violated the Convention by exposing the applicants to danger in Libya itself. According to many reliable UN, Council of Europe, and NGO sources, even in the spring of 2009, it was \"well-known and easy to verify\" (para. 131) that irregular migrants faced great dangers in Libya. The fact that Libya had assured Italy in a bilateral agreeement that it would deal with such migrants in conformity with international law did not detract from that. Crucially, even if the persons involved do not explicitly ask the state on whose ship they find themselves for asylum, it is still the state's own obligation under the ECHR to check whether they would not face treatment in violation of article 3. Again, this is very important in practice: by just avoiding to even try to find out rescued people's nationality or legal status, a state cannot avoid being held to account under the European convention. Secondly, it also found a violation by the fact that he applicants had been exposed to the risk of being sent onwards from Libya (the intermediary country) to their countries of origin: Somalia and Eritrea. It is for the state (para. 147):to ensure that the intermediary country offers sufficient guarantees to prevent the person concerned being removed to his country of origin without an assessment of the risks faced. The Court observes that that obligation is all the more important when, as in the instant case, the intermediary country is not a State party to the Convention.(emphasis added)First off, the court noted that both countries, Eritrea and Somalia, faced \"widespread serious problems of insecurity\" (para. 151). Secondly and crucially, Italy (para. 156):knew or should have known that there were insufficient guarantees protecting the parties concerned from the risk of being arbitrarily returned to their countries of origin, having regard in particular to the lack of any asylum procedure and the impossibility of making the Libyan authorities recognise the refugee status granted by the UNHCR.Thus states cannot simply wash their hands of a situation like this by failing to acquire information.Also, the court for only the second time ever found a violation of the prohibition of collective expulsion of aliens (Article 4 of Protocol 4) - the first time was in 2002 in the case of \u010conka v Belgium, on a group of expulsed Slovak Roma. In Hirsi Jamaa, the court for the first time had to decide whether this prohibition also applied to removing aliens extraterritorially. It answered that question in the affirmative: Article 4 Protocol 4 contains no reference to \"territory\" nor do the travaux pr\u00e9paratoires point in that direction. And then follows a very important paragraph in the court's reasoning (para. 177): The Court has already found that, according to the established case-law of the Commission and of the Court, the purpose of Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 is to prevent States being able to remove certain aliens without examining their personal circumstances and, consequently, without enabling them to put forward their arguments against the measure taken by the relevant authority. If, therefore, Article 4 of Protocol No. 4 were to apply only to collective expulsions from the national territory of the States Parties to the Convention, a significant component of contemporary migratory patterns would not fall within the ambit of that provision, notwithstanding the fact that the conduct it is intended to prohibit can occur outside national territory and in particular, as in the instant case, on the high seas. Article 4 would thus be ineffective in practice with regard to such situations, which, however, are on the increase. The consequence of that would be that migrants having taken to the sea, often risking their lives, and not having managed to reach the borders of a State, would not be entitled to an examination of their personal circumstances before being expelled, unlike those travelling by land.Consequently, by not carrying out any form of individual assessment whatsoever of the persons involved, the handing over of the applicants to Libya from the Italian ship amounted to a collective expulsion.Finally, the court found a violation of the right to an effective remedy (Article 13 ECHR) in conjunction with the aforementioned articles. The applicants had had no access to any procedure. There were no legal advisers or interpreters on board nor were they given information in general about what was going to happen. As to the legal consequences, the court ruled under Article 46 of the Convention (obligation to abide by the court's judgments, a provision not applied very often) that Italy (para. 211) \"must take all possible steps to obtains assurances from the Libyan authorities that the applicants will not be subjected to treatment incompatible with Article 3 of the convention or arbitrarily repatriated.\" In addition, each applicant was awarded, under Article 41 ECHR, 15,000 euros for non-pecuniary damage suffered.The Portuguese judge, Pinto de Albuquerque, attached a long concurring opinion to the judgment which goes into the linkages between the international human rights law and international refugee law. This was a very important judgment, upholding the absolute nature of the non-refoulement principle in the face of new ways of controlling migration flows by European states. It means that literally pushing back the problem further from a state's territory does not change that state's human rights obligations.", "tags": ["European court of human rights", "Italy", "Libya", "Refugees", "Human rights"], "title": "All at sea: Italy mistreated Mediterranean migrants | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:22:58Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Angela Merkel's desk is dominated by a portrait of Catherine II, the great German tsarina who began a written correspondence with Voltaire. Every now and then, even the German chancellor takes a break from economic relations and political advisors and gives herself some time to reflect. To this end, she occasionally brings together a few writers and academics, specialising in radically different disciplines and simply listens. Last summer, during one of these dinners, she was asked how long she would carry on demanding sacrifices from Greece. \"As long as the bags under Papandreou's eyes are smaller than mine,\" she replied.Regularly crowned the most powerful woman in the world in international surveys, Merkel is aware that, after her rapid ascent to become not only the first female chancellor, but also the youngest in German history, the euro crisis will be her most critical test. It is that which will determine whether Helmut Kohl's former pupil is worthy of a place in the history books, and whether or not it is adorned with flattering adjectives.However, the future of the single currency also depends on whether Germany can maintain its leadership role in Europe. Inevitably, it has provoked distrust in the rest of the continent: in which the chancellor's costly dilly-dallying during the debt crisis, led to remarks about a third world war in the British press. Even the new stability agreement, which has been subject to rigorous German accounting, incites fears that Europe is strangling its own growth potential.In 1990, it was Kohl who discovered the woman he called \"the girl\". Then a 36-year-old physics researcher, she had grown up behind the iron curtain, wore enormous skirts and sported the haircut of a medieval knight. Within a few months the chancellor had catapulted her to the top of federal politics. There, she soon showed herself to have a great capacity for diplomacy and to be an unusually fast learner. As the daughter of a protestant minister, she took advantage of the fact that parties such as the CDU/CSU were almost entirely dominated by men who underestimated her.It is common knowledge that, on her road to victory, she even pushed aside her mentor in 2000, when she called upon the party \u2013 then crushed by allegations it had obtained illicit funds \u2013 to liberate itself from the \"Father of Reunification\". But from 2005, when she took over the top job, Merkel has shown herself capable of being at the helm of a country that, since its entry into the euro, has lost the only symbol of power granted to it since the second world war: the deutschmark.The chancellor's habit of letting reason triumph over visionary impulses and Kohl-type breakaways is clear to see. It may possibly owe something to the after-effects of a motor problem in her legs, which forced her since childhood to plan the smallest of manoeuvres in advance. And, as she has herself declared, the experience of living under a communist dictatorship in East Germany has above all taught her to distrust everyone. This distrust, in turn, has fed into her proverbial caution and pragmatic approach towards European politics.A positive side to this pragmatism is shown in her attitude towards the European Central Bank and its extraordinary transactions \u2013 which more orthodox Germans continue to brand a violation of the treaties. The chancellor, however, is well aware it continues to be the only bulwark against an escalation of the crisis.And when Axel Weber, a candidate for the German presidency, unexpectedly withdrew from the contest in protest against the bank's new functions, Merkel backed the installation of the Italian Mario Draghi as its new head.The accession of the other \"super Mario\" \u2013 Monti, in Italy, which has served to bring that country more closely into the fold \u2013 has proved something of a relief for Merkel. Even the former head of the EU's antitrust body recently admitted that Merkel's mission is to \"make Italians more similar to Germans\". Who knows if she will succeed. And, above all, who knows if the Germans will then like us more.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel \u2013 the view from Italy"},{"date": "2012-01-16T09:46:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A sixth body has been found on the stricken Costa Concordia which crashed into rocks off Italy's Tuscan coast on Friday night.Unconfirmed reports suggest that a man wearing what appeared to be a lifejacket was found in a corridor still above water in the ship early on Monday. The discovery came as the ship's captain, Francesco Schettino, faced further questioning by prosecutors and its owners prepared to give their explanations for the disaster at the Mediterranean island of Giglio. Sixteen people remain unaccounted for.As survivors from the 4,200 passengers and crew gave their accounts of the disaster, divers continued to search submerged areas of the vessel and rescue leaders began to consider when they might have to wind down their efforts and concentrate on removing fuel from the liner.Costa Cruises, the company that operated the liner, has said \"preliminary indications\" suggested Schettino may have been guilty of \"significant human error\".In a statement it said: \"The route of the vessel appears to have been too close to the shore, and the captain's judgment in handling the emergency appears to have not followed standard Costa procedures.\"Prosecutors have also said the crew mishandled the emergency, delaying the start of the evacuation until an hour after the accident and there have also been reports that the captain was already ashore just after midnight, well before the last passengers were evacuated.Schettino, who is reportedly held on suspicion of multiple manslaughter and abandoning ship, told Italian television he was not to blame, claiming nautical charts did not show the rocks which ripped a 160ft gash in the ship's hull. Claims have also been made that the captain was seen saluting a colleague or former colleague on shore.All 23 British passengers and 12 crew members on board the Costa Concordia survived.Cruise giant Carnival, which owns Costa Cruises, said on Monday the loss of the ship would wipe up to \u00a362m from its profits this year. It would be out of service until at the least the end of its financial year on 30 November, costing it from $85m-95m this year. It was too early to calculate other costs but the company was insured for $40m (\u00a326.1m) for the vessel.Micky Arison, chairman and chief executive of Carnival, said: \"At this time, our priority is the safety of our passengers and crew.\"We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and our hearts go out to everyone affected by the grounding of the Costa Concordia and especially to the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives. They will remain in our thoughts and prayers.\"Shares in Carnival were down 21% on Monday, wiping nearly \u00a31bn from its market value. Its stock had already fallen about 30% over the previous year as the weak economic climate hit demand for cruises. It owns 11 brands, including P&O, Cunard and Princess Cruises.", "tags": ["Costa Concordia", "Italy", "Water transport", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Italy cruise ship crash: sixth body found"},{"date": "2012-03-28T22:43:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Assets worth more than \u20ac1bn belonging to the late Muammar Gaddafi, his son, and his intelligence chief were seized in Italy in raids by its revenue guard made at the request of the international criminal court in The Hague.They included holdings in some of Italy's biggest corporations, a 1.5% stake in the Serie A side Juventus and a Harley-Davidson motorbike.Also seized from the Libyan leader was a 150-hectare estate on the Mediterranean island of Pantelleria, a destination for illegal migrants and refugees attempting to enter Europe by boat from Libya. The seizures were ordered by the Rome appeals court at the request of the international criminal court in The Hague. The ICC launched a hunt for property belonging to Gaddafi and his associates last June when it issued warrants for their arrest on charges of crimes against humanity.Financial assets owned by the late Libyan leader had earlier been frozen in the European Union and elsewhere following two UN resolutions in February and March, 2011. Gaddafi was killed by insurgents last October after failing to put down a popular uprising backed by most western powers.The most valuable single item seized was a 1.26% interest in Italy's biggest bank, Unicredit, worth more than \u20ac600m (\u00a3502m). Other significant shareholdings included stakes in the oil and gas giant, ENI, the defence firm Finmeccanica and two companies in the Fiat motor group.All the assets were held through Libya's sovereign wealth fund, the Libyan Investment Authority, which was set up in 2006, ostensibly to manage Libya's oil revenues and diversify the country's income. LIA's stake in Unicredit was its biggest single investment.Several bank accounts holding cash and shares were destined to be put under temporary, special administration as a result of Wednesday's operation. Also put under sequester was a flat in the centre of Rome, close to the Via Veneto. The Harley-Davidson was one of two motorcycles confiscated by the revenue guard.It was not immediately clear which of the assets belonged to Colonel Gaddafi, which to his son, Saif Al-Islam and which to his former head of intelligence, Abdullah Senussi. Gaddafi's son was captured last November and is being held in Libya. Senussi, Gaddafi's brother-in-law, who is wanted for questioning in connection with the 1988 Lockerbie bombing, was reportedly arrested in Mauritania earlier this month.", "tags": ["Italy", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Saif al-Islam Gaddafi", "Africa", "Europe"], "title": "Gaddafi family assets worth more than \u20ac1bn seized in Italy"},{"date": "2012-05-22T16:29:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The magnitude 6 earthquake that hit northern Italy at the weekend, killing seven people and toppling historic churches, castles and clock towers, has also taken a huge toll on the country's culinary culture.Parmesan cheese producers near the quake's epicentre in flat farmland north of Bologna said 300,000 massive wheels of the cheese that were ageing on tall shelves in warehouses crashed to the ground.\"All the shelving toppled over like huge dominoes and only 20 to 30% of my wheels survived unscathed,\" said Ivano Chezzi, the manager of one facility where 90,000 wheels were aging.After ageing for 12 to 24 months, three million 40kg parmesan wheels worth almost \u20ac2bn (\u00a31.6bn) are sold each year from the region. Two-thirds of the output stays in Italy, and the rest \u2013 about 40,000 tonnes \u2013 is exported.\"The wheels that fell represent 10% of annual production,\" said a spokesman for the Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese Consortium. Half of them might now be lost, he added, costing the business \u20ac80m, including the cost of repairing storage warehouses.The wheels, which measure 40cm across, are stacked 22 wheels high on shelves standing up to 10m. Staff at the 10 storage sites hit by Sunday's quake were urgently picking through toppled shelves and smashed cheeses, looking for undamaged wheels and seeking spare storage with the correct temperature and humidity where they can continue to age.One producer said it would take 20 days to fish out all the wheels. \"If the cheeses have broken open they may go mouldy,\" said Leo Bertozzi, the director of the consortium. Wheels that have suffered minor damage may be sold at a discount for industrial use or grating, he added. \"Seeing all those wheels everywhere really hit me in the stomach,\" he said.To be considered genuine parmesan, the cheese must be aged in the area, and producers are now seeking an exception to the rule as they rebuild their warehouses. The wheels, which sell for up to \u20ac420 when fully matured for 24 months, are considered so valuable that a local bank offers to hold them as collateral on loans for producers. The loss of the wheels does not necessarily mean parmesan's price will rise, said Chezzi, due to a recent increase in production.Producers of Grana Padano, a cheese similar to parmesan that is also grated on pasta dishes, reportedly lost up to 130,000 wheels during the earthquake. In a region known for the production of prosciutto ham, one farm lost more than 100 pigs when buildings collapsed.Amid heavy rain and falling temperatures on Tuesday, about 5,000 residents unable or afraid to return to their homes continued to sleep in tents, temporary accommodation or cars as aftershocks continued to rattle the region.The Italian prime minister, Mario Monti, was heckled as he visited the area after cutting short his appearance at the Nato summit in Chicago. The government declared a state of emergency for the region, with Monti promising swift help for stricken businesses, especially small farms and factories.", "tags": ["Italy", "Earthquakes", "Cheese", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Farming", "Environment"], "title": "Italy earthquake hits parmesan production"},{"date": "2012-05-22T16:29:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The magnitude 6 earthquake that hit northern Italy at the weekend, killing seven people and toppling historic churches, castles and clock towers, has also taken a huge toll on the country's culinary culture.Parmesan cheese producers near the quake's epicentre in flat farmland north of Bologna said 300,000 massive wheels of the cheese that were ageing on tall shelves in warehouses crashed to the ground.\"All the shelving toppled over like huge dominoes and only 20 to 30% of my wheels survived unscathed,\" said Ivano Chezzi, the manager of one facility where 90,000 wheels were aging.After ageing for 12 to 24 months, three million 40kg parmesan wheels worth almost \u20ac2bn (\u00a31.6bn) are sold each year from the region. Two-thirds of the output stays in Italy, and the rest \u2013 about 40,000 tonnes \u2013 is exported.\"The wheels that fell represent 10% of annual production,\" said a spokesman for the Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese Consortium. Half of them might now be lost, he added, costing the business \u20ac80m, including the cost of repairing storage warehouses.The wheels, which measure 40cm across, are stacked 22 wheels high on shelves standing up to 10m. Staff at the 10 storage sites hit by Sunday's quake were urgently picking through toppled shelves and smashed cheeses, looking for undamaged wheels and seeking spare storage with the correct temperature and humidity where they can continue to age.One producer said it would take 20 days to fish out all the wheels. \"If the cheeses have broken open they may go mouldy,\" said Leo Bertozzi, the director of the consortium. Wheels that have suffered minor damage may be sold at a discount for industrial use or grating, he added. \"Seeing all those wheels everywhere really hit me in the stomach,\" he said.To be considered genuine parmesan, the cheese must be aged in the area, and producers are now seeking an exception to the rule as they rebuild their warehouses. The wheels, which sell for up to \u20ac420 when fully matured for 24 months, are considered so valuable that a local bank offers to hold them as collateral on loans for producers. The loss of the wheels does not necessarily mean parmesan's price will rise, said Chezzi, due to a recent increase in production.Producers of Grana Padano, a cheese similar to parmesan that is also grated on pasta dishes, reportedly lost up to 130,000 wheels during the earthquake. In a region known for the production of prosciutto ham, one farm lost more than 100 pigs when buildings collapsed.Amid heavy rain and falling temperatures on Tuesday, about 5,000 residents unable or afraid to return to their homes continued to sleep in tents, temporary accommodation or cars as aftershocks continued to rattle the region.The Italian prime minister, Mario Monti, was heckled as he visited the area after cutting short his appearance at the Nato summit in Chicago. The government declared a state of emergency for the region, with Monti promising swift help for stricken businesses, especially small farms and factories.", "tags": ["Italy", "Earthquakes", "Cheese", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Farming", "Environment"], "title": "Italy earthquake hits parmesan production"},{"date": "2012-05-20T12:27:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Aftershocks continued to be felt in northern Italy on Sunday after a strong earthquake in the early hours killed at least four, injured more than 50 and reduced historic churches and castle towers to rubble.The epicentre of the quake, which the US Geological Survey recorded at magnitude 6.0, was 3.2 miles below ground, north of Bologna in the Emilia-Romagna region, and was felt across Italy, from Liguria to the Veneto.Hundreds of terrified residents fled their homes and hospitals were evacuated after the 20-second earthquake struck at 4.04am. While major towns including Bologna emerged unscathed, helicopters were flying over remote villages as day broke, looking for collapsed buildings in which survivors could be trapped.Four people killed by the quake were working overnight in factories which collapsed, including Geraldo Cesaro, 57, one of 10 employees at Tecopress, a maker of aluminium car parts in Sant' Agostino, where the town hall was seriously damaged and in danger of collapse .\"We think everyone else got out of the factory, but he didn't make it out in time,\" said the firm's human resource director, Adriano Orlandini, after rescuers located Cesaro's body amid the rubble of the 45-year-old factory.Police were called to the site on Sunday as a group of Nigerian workers demanded information about a missing colleague. \"I could never have imagined the violence of the quake here,\" said Orlandini as firefighters picked through wreckage.Two more night workers died at a nearby ceramics factory and a fourth man, a Moroccan, died when he was hit by a falling beam at a plastics factory in Ponte Rodoni di Bondeno. Two women, one German, died after reportedly suffering a heart attack during the quake.The last serious earthquake to strike Italy was the 6.3 scale shock in L'Aquila in 2009 which killed nearly 300.In the town of San Felice sul Panaro, the tops of several towers of a 14th-century castle collapsed while churches in the town were seriously damaged.In Finale Emilia the historic Palazzo dei Veneziani partially collapsed. Eleven residents survived but were forced to knock down a wall to escape. The Castello delle Rocche in the town was also damaged, while a clock tower was split down the middle, one said, disintegrating into rubble.\"After an initial survey, damage to cultural patrimony appears significant,\" Italy's cultural ministry said.In Finale Emilia a five-year-old girl was pulled out of a collapsed building after rescuers were telephoned by a doctor in New York. The girl's mother, who had been unable to get through to emergency services, had called the doctor for help.", "tags": ["Italy", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Aftershocks rock Italy earthquake zone"},{"date": "2012-05-22T16:29:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The magnitude 6 earthquake that hit northern Italy at the weekend, killing seven people and toppling historic churches, castles and clock towers, has also taken a huge toll on the country's culinary culture.Parmesan cheese producers near the quake's epicentre in flat farmland north of Bologna said 300,000 massive wheels of the cheese that were ageing on tall shelves in warehouses crashed to the ground.\"All the shelving toppled over like huge dominoes and only 20 to 30% of my wheels survived unscathed,\" said Ivano Chezzi, the manager of one facility where 90,000 wheels were aging.After ageing for 12 to 24 months, three million 40kg parmesan wheels worth almost \u20ac2bn (\u00a31.6bn) are sold each year from the region. Two-thirds of the output stays in Italy, and the rest \u2013 about 40,000 tonnes \u2013 is exported.\"The wheels that fell represent 10% of annual production,\" said a spokesman for the Parmigiano-Reggiano Cheese Consortium. Half of them might now be lost, he added, costing the business \u20ac80m, including the cost of repairing storage warehouses.The wheels, which measure 40cm across, are stacked 22 wheels high on shelves standing up to 10m. Staff at the 10 storage sites hit by Sunday's quake were urgently picking through toppled shelves and smashed cheeses, looking for undamaged wheels and seeking spare storage with the correct temperature and humidity where they can continue to age.One producer said it would take 20 days to fish out all the wheels. \"If the cheeses have broken open they may go mouldy,\" said Leo Bertozzi, the director of the consortium. Wheels that have suffered minor damage may be sold at a discount for industrial use or grating, he added. \"Seeing all those wheels everywhere really hit me in the stomach,\" he said.To be considered genuine parmesan, the cheese must be aged in the area, and producers are now seeking an exception to the rule as they rebuild their warehouses. The wheels, which sell for up to \u20ac420 when fully matured for 24 months, are considered so valuable that a local bank offers to hold them as collateral on loans for producers. The loss of the wheels does not necessarily mean parmesan's price will rise, said Chezzi, due to a recent increase in production.Producers of Grana Padano, a cheese similar to parmesan that is also grated on pasta dishes, reportedly lost up to 130,000 wheels during the earthquake. In a region known for the production of prosciutto ham, one farm lost more than 100 pigs when buildings collapsed.Amid heavy rain and falling temperatures on Tuesday, about 5,000 residents unable or afraid to return to their homes continued to sleep in tents, temporary accommodation or cars as aftershocks continued to rattle the region.The Italian prime minister, Mario Monti, was heckled as he visited the area after cutting short his appearance at the Nato summit in Chicago. The government declared a state of emergency for the region, with Monti promising swift help for stricken businesses, especially small farms and factories.", "tags": ["Italy", "Earthquakes", "Cheese", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Farming", "Environment"], "title": "Italy earthquake hits parmesan production"},{"date": "2012-05-20T12:27:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Aftershocks continued to be felt in northern Italy on Sunday after a strong earthquake in the early hours killed at least four, injured more than 50 and reduced historic churches and castle towers to rubble.The epicentre of the quake, which the US Geological Survey recorded at magnitude 6.0, was 3.2 miles below ground, north of Bologna in the Emilia-Romagna region, and was felt across Italy, from Liguria to the Veneto.Hundreds of terrified residents fled their homes and hospitals were evacuated after the 20-second earthquake struck at 4.04am. While major towns including Bologna emerged unscathed, helicopters were flying over remote villages as day broke, looking for collapsed buildings in which survivors could be trapped.Four people killed by the quake were working overnight in factories which collapsed, including Geraldo Cesaro, 57, one of 10 employees at Tecopress, a maker of aluminium car parts in Sant' Agostino, where the town hall was seriously damaged and in danger of collapse .\"We think everyone else got out of the factory, but he didn't make it out in time,\" said the firm's human resource director, Adriano Orlandini, after rescuers located Cesaro's body amid the rubble of the 45-year-old factory.Police were called to the site on Sunday as a group of Nigerian workers demanded information about a missing colleague. \"I could never have imagined the violence of the quake here,\" said Orlandini as firefighters picked through wreckage.Two more night workers died at a nearby ceramics factory and a fourth man, a Moroccan, died when he was hit by a falling beam at a plastics factory in Ponte Rodoni di Bondeno. Two women, one German, died after reportedly suffering a heart attack during the quake.The last serious earthquake to strike Italy was the 6.3 scale shock in L'Aquila in 2009 which killed nearly 300.In the town of San Felice sul Panaro, the tops of several towers of a 14th-century castle collapsed while churches in the town were seriously damaged.In Finale Emilia the historic Palazzo dei Veneziani partially collapsed. Eleven residents survived but were forced to knock down a wall to escape. The Castello delle Rocche in the town was also damaged, while a clock tower was split down the middle, one said, disintegrating into rubble.\"After an initial survey, damage to cultural patrimony appears significant,\" Italy's cultural ministry said.In Finale Emilia a five-year-old girl was pulled out of a collapsed building after rescuers were telephoned by a doctor in New York. The girl's mother, who had been unable to get through to emergency services, had called the doctor for help.", "tags": ["Italy", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Aftershocks rock Italy earthquake zone"},{"date": "2012-06-26T17:58:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Spain and Italy were mired in financial woes again on Tuesday after borrowing costs jumped, stock markets fell and local politicians warred with each other over who is to blame for the financial crisis.Spanish borrowing costs jumped following the government's application for a \u20ac100bn eurozone rescue facility to prevent the country's banks going bust.The interest rate on a batch of three- and six-month bonds almost doubled as the precarious situation of Spain's banking sector and the knock-on effects for government finances sent most investors scurrying for safer havens.A lack of agreement in Brussels during the day also panicked bond investors, many of which have lent billions of euros to crisis-hit countries, raising the cost of long-term borrowing. Reported comments by Angela Merkel that Europe would not have pooled debt liability \"as long as I live\" added to investor concern.Bond auctions have become a litmus test of a country's viability and rebuilding the faith of private investors lies at the heart of discussions between European leaders. While the focus has been on Spain and Italy and the countries in receipt of direct EU funds \u2013 Ireland, Portugal and Greece \u2013 France is also under the spotlight. After a brief honeymoon following the election of President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande last month, French interest rates have begun to rise.Bill Blain, a strategist at Newedge Group in London, said: \"Once the sheer misery of Spain and Italy is figured in, the next target will be France. I'm seeing a very small number of international institutional players buying French debt. People are very nervous.\"Hollande is expect to revise his budget in the next few weeks to take account of falling tax revenues and promises he has made to generate growth and employ 60,000 extra public sector jobs.The interest rate on the French benchmark 10-year bond advanced to 2.63%, up from a euro-era low of 2.071% on June 1. It was as high as 2.902% on 15 May, when Hollande took office.European stock markets were relatively placid ahead of the Brussels summit, though Spain's IBEX 35 Index dipped 1.5% and Italy's MIB dropped 1.1%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Italy"], "title": "Spain and Italy suffer new economic setbacks"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:25:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Huffington Post has launched an Italian site today, L'Huffington Post, in partnership with Gruppo Espresso, a media conglomerate based in Rome. It kicks off an interview with Silvio Berlusconi. The site is edited by Lucia Annunziata who has previously worked for two leading Italian newspapers, la Repubblica and Corriere della Sera.L'Huffington Post follows the launch of HuffPo editions in the Britain, Canada, France and Spain. HuffPo founder, Arianna Huffington, promises that l'HuffPost \"will celebrate Italy's vibrant culture, from its cuisine, operas, and art to its traditions, ancient history and legendary cities.\"", "tags": ["Media", "Huffington Post", "Italy", "Arianna Huffington", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Huffington Post launches in Italy"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:25:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Huffington Post has launched an Italian site today, L'Huffington Post, in partnership with Gruppo Espresso, a media conglomerate based in Rome. It kicks off an interview with Silvio Berlusconi. The site is edited by Lucia Annunziata who has previously worked for two leading Italian newspapers, la Repubblica and Corriere della Sera.L'Huffington Post follows the launch of HuffPo editions in the Britain, Canada, France and Spain. HuffPo founder, Arianna Huffington, promises that l'HuffPost \"will celebrate Italy's vibrant culture, from its cuisine, operas, and art to its traditions, ancient history and legendary cities.\"", "tags": ["Media", "Huffington Post", "Italy", "Arianna Huffington", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Huffington Post launches in Italy"},{"date": "2012-08-14T16:52:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a sure sign that Italy has entered a more buttoned-up era following the fall of Silvio Berlusconi, organisers of this year's Miss Italy have banned bikinis in favour of the one-piece costumes favoured in the 1950s.The switch follows comments from Anna Maria Tarantola, the recently appointed boss of Italian state TV under Mario Monti's austerity government, who said it was time to clamp down on nudity after years of filling shows with scantily clad dancing girls.A big ratings winner for state TV, Miss Italy remains an institution with viewers. Winners regularly secure modelling contracts and acting roles. But this year viewers will see less of contestants after organiser Patrizia Mirigliani said she would follow Tarantola's lead by dressing contestants in old-fashioned costumes that cover the crotch and upper thigh.Before the show, contestants will meet Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter, which will help them learn about the \"concept of interior, as well as exterior\" beauty, according to Mirigliani.The bikini ban draws a line under the years in which Prime Minister Berlusconi allegedly rang state TV bosses to convince them to cast his young female friends in shows and populated his \"bunga bunga\" parties with TV dancing girls and buxom reality stars.One Berlusconi guest who says she fled his mansion disgusted by what she saw is competing in the new-look Miss Italy. Chiara Danese has claimed the former prime minister encouraged his party guests to strip and dance for him. When she tried to leave she was allegedly warned she would never become Miss Italy.Il Giornale, a newspaper owned by Berlusconi's brother, was scathing about the impact of \"Monti-style sobriety\" on Miss Italy, asking on Tuesday: \"If we cover the bottom, the object of male fantasy, with centimetres of cloth, what sense does the competition have?\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miss Italy contest bans bikinis"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:25:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Huffington Post has launched an Italian site today, L'Huffington Post, in partnership with Gruppo Espresso, a media conglomerate based in Rome. It kicks off an interview with Silvio Berlusconi. The site is edited by Lucia Annunziata who has previously worked for two leading Italian newspapers, la Repubblica and Corriere della Sera.L'Huffington Post follows the launch of HuffPo editions in the Britain, Canada, France and Spain. HuffPo founder, Arianna Huffington, promises that l'HuffPost \"will celebrate Italy's vibrant culture, from its cuisine, operas, and art to its traditions, ancient history and legendary cities.\"", "tags": ["Media", "Huffington Post", "Italy", "Arianna Huffington", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Huffington Post launches in Italy"},{"date": "2012-08-14T16:52:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a sure sign that Italy has entered a more buttoned-up era following the fall of Silvio Berlusconi, organisers of this year's Miss Italy have banned bikinis in favour of the one-piece costumes favoured in the 1950s.The switch follows comments from Anna Maria Tarantola, the recently appointed boss of Italian state TV under Mario Monti's austerity government, who said it was time to clamp down on nudity after years of filling shows with scantily clad dancing girls.A big ratings winner for state TV, Miss Italy remains an institution with viewers. Winners regularly secure modelling contracts and acting roles. But this year viewers will see less of contestants after organiser Patrizia Mirigliani said she would follow Tarantola's lead by dressing contestants in old-fashioned costumes that cover the crotch and upper thigh.Before the show, contestants will meet Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter, which will help them learn about the \"concept of interior, as well as exterior\" beauty, according to Mirigliani.The bikini ban draws a line under the years in which Prime Minister Berlusconi allegedly rang state TV bosses to convince them to cast his young female friends in shows and populated his \"bunga bunga\" parties with TV dancing girls and buxom reality stars.One Berlusconi guest who says she fled his mansion disgusted by what she saw is competing in the new-look Miss Italy. Chiara Danese has claimed the former prime minister encouraged his party guests to strip and dance for him. When she tried to leave she was allegedly warned she would never become Miss Italy.Il Giornale, a newspaper owned by Berlusconi's brother, was scathing about the impact of \"Monti-style sobriety\" on Miss Italy, asking on Tuesday: \"If we cover the bottom, the object of male fantasy, with centimetres of cloth, what sense does the competition have?\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miss Italy contest bans bikinis"},{"date": "2012-09-19T23:38:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's highest criminal court on Wednesday upheld the convictions of 23 Americans found guilty of kidnapping a Muslim cleric from a Milanese street and transferring him to a country where torture was permitted. The court of cassation's ruling is the final appeal in the world's first judicial review of the CIA practice of abducting terror suspects and transferring them to third countries, a practice also known as extraordinary rendition.The 23 Americans were all convicted in absentia following a trial that lasted over three years. The verdict paves the way for the Italian government to seek redress and could put the Americans at risk of arrest if they travel to Europe.\"It went badly. It went very badly,\" lawyer Alessia Sorgato told the Associated Press. \"Now they will ask for extradition.\"Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, also known as Abu Omar, was kidnapped while walking to noon prayers at a Milan mosque on 17 February 2003. He had been under investigation in Italy for allegedly recruiting jihadi fighters. Prosecutors claimed CIA operatives snatched him with the help of two Italian intelligence officers, drove him to Aviano Air Force base, and then flew him to a Nato base in Germany en route to Cairo, Egypt. When Nasr emerged from an Egyptian prison four years later, he claimed he had been tortured.Among those whose conviction was upheld Wednesday was US Air Force Colonel Joseph Romano, who was in charge of Aviano AF base security. His lawyers said they intend to appeal to the EU human rights court in Strasbourg.The court confirmed the seven-year sentences for 22 Americans (all but one of whom prosecutors identified as CIA agents, who are likely now in the US) and a 9-year sentence for former Milan station chief Robert Seldon Lady. The two Italian accomplices, former SISMI military intelligence officers Nicolo Pollari and Marco Mancini, were ordered to be retried in the Milan court of appeals. They had previously been acquitted on appeal citing a state-secrecy injunction.The court also ordered \u20ac1m in damages to be paid to Nasr and \u20ac500,000 to his wife. The justice ministry plans to request extraditions, Ansa news agency reportedThe Milan anti-terrorism magistrate who guided the prosecution, Armando Spataro, lauded the decision, telling the Associated Press it was the equivalent of finding extraordinary rendition \"incompatible with democracy\".Successive Italian governments denied all knowledge of the case and consistently ruled out extradition,and the judges appeared intent on holding US authorities accountable.Some agents decried being made into international fugitives for following orders from more senior CIA and state department officials in Washington, who called for the extradition while an anti-terror investigation in Italy was underway. Mark Zaid, a US lawyer representing one of the prosecuted women, said the court ruling damages the integrity of the system of diplomatic immunity.\"Diplomats around the world should consider themselves at greater risk today,\" Zaid said.", "tags": ["Rendition", "CIA", "World news", "US news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy upholds rendition convictions for 23 Americans"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:25:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Huffington Post has launched an Italian site today, L'Huffington Post, in partnership with Gruppo Espresso, a media conglomerate based in Rome. It kicks off an interview with Silvio Berlusconi. The site is edited by Lucia Annunziata who has previously worked for two leading Italian newspapers, la Repubblica and Corriere della Sera.L'Huffington Post follows the launch of HuffPo editions in the Britain, Canada, France and Spain. HuffPo founder, Arianna Huffington, promises that l'HuffPost \"will celebrate Italy's vibrant culture, from its cuisine, operas, and art to its traditions, ancient history and legendary cities.\"", "tags": ["Media", "Huffington Post", "Italy", "Arianna Huffington", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Huffington Post launches in Italy"},{"date": "2012-08-14T16:52:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "In a sure sign that Italy has entered a more buttoned-up era following the fall of Silvio Berlusconi, organisers of this year's Miss Italy have banned bikinis in favour of the one-piece costumes favoured in the 1950s.The switch follows comments from Anna Maria Tarantola, the recently appointed boss of Italian state TV under Mario Monti's austerity government, who said it was time to clamp down on nudity after years of filling shows with scantily clad dancing girls.A big ratings winner for state TV, Miss Italy remains an institution with viewers. Winners regularly secure modelling contracts and acting roles. But this year viewers will see less of contestants after organiser Patrizia Mirigliani said she would follow Tarantola's lead by dressing contestants in old-fashioned costumes that cover the crotch and upper thigh.Before the show, contestants will meet Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter, which will help them learn about the \"concept of interior, as well as exterior\" beauty, according to Mirigliani.The bikini ban draws a line under the years in which Prime Minister Berlusconi allegedly rang state TV bosses to convince them to cast his young female friends in shows and populated his \"bunga bunga\" parties with TV dancing girls and buxom reality stars.One Berlusconi guest who says she fled his mansion disgusted by what she saw is competing in the new-look Miss Italy. Chiara Danese has claimed the former prime minister encouraged his party guests to strip and dance for him. When she tried to leave she was allegedly warned she would never become Miss Italy.Il Giornale, a newspaper owned by Berlusconi's brother, was scathing about the impact of \"Monti-style sobriety\" on Miss Italy, asking on Tuesday: \"If we cover the bottom, the object of male fantasy, with centimetres of cloth, what sense does the competition have?\"", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miss Italy contest bans bikinis"},{"date": "2012-09-19T23:38:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy's highest criminal court on Wednesday upheld the convictions of 23 Americans found guilty of kidnapping a Muslim cleric from a Milanese street and transferring him to a country where torture was permitted. The court of cassation's ruling is the final appeal in the world's first judicial review of the CIA practice of abducting terror suspects and transferring them to third countries, a practice also known as extraordinary rendition.The 23 Americans were all convicted in absentia following a trial that lasted over three years. The verdict paves the way for the Italian government to seek redress and could put the Americans at risk of arrest if they travel to Europe.\"It went badly. It went very badly,\" lawyer Alessia Sorgato told the Associated Press. \"Now they will ask for extradition.\"Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, also known as Abu Omar, was kidnapped while walking to noon prayers at a Milan mosque on 17 February 2003. He had been under investigation in Italy for allegedly recruiting jihadi fighters. Prosecutors claimed CIA operatives snatched him with the help of two Italian intelligence officers, drove him to Aviano Air Force base, and then flew him to a Nato base in Germany en route to Cairo, Egypt. When Nasr emerged from an Egyptian prison four years later, he claimed he had been tortured.Among those whose conviction was upheld Wednesday was US Air Force Colonel Joseph Romano, who was in charge of Aviano AF base security. His lawyers said they intend to appeal to the EU human rights court in Strasbourg.The court confirmed the seven-year sentences for 22 Americans (all but one of whom prosecutors identified as CIA agents, who are likely now in the US) and a 9-year sentence for former Milan station chief Robert Seldon Lady. The two Italian accomplices, former SISMI military intelligence officers Nicolo Pollari and Marco Mancini, were ordered to be retried in the Milan court of appeals. They had previously been acquitted on appeal citing a state-secrecy injunction.The court also ordered \u20ac1m in damages to be paid to Nasr and \u20ac500,000 to his wife. The justice ministry plans to request extraditions, Ansa news agency reportedThe Milan anti-terrorism magistrate who guided the prosecution, Armando Spataro, lauded the decision, telling the Associated Press it was the equivalent of finding extraordinary rendition \"incompatible with democracy\".Successive Italian governments denied all knowledge of the case and consistently ruled out extradition,and the judges appeared intent on holding US authorities accountable.Some agents decried being made into international fugitives for following orders from more senior CIA and state department officials in Washington, who called for the extradition while an anti-terror investigation in Italy was underway. Mark Zaid, a US lawyer representing one of the prosecuted women, said the court ruling damages the integrity of the system of diplomatic immunity.\"Diplomats around the world should consider themselves at greater risk today,\" Zaid said.", "tags": ["Rendition", "CIA", "World news", "US news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy upholds rendition convictions for 23 Americans"},{"date": "2012-09-13T09:55:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "This list is purely personal, focusing on the occasion as much as the menu. As such, I've made no attempt to be representative. Northern Italy hardly gets a look in, and a couple of them weren't even in restaurants at all. I'm sure you'll have your own suggestions and favourites, which you can post in the comments below. Buon appetito!Price guide Cheap: up to \u20ac10ppMedium: \u20ac25-30ppExpensive: above \u20ac30ppCastel del Monte, Frederick II's amazing 13th-century octagonal castle, sits in the middle of nowhere in northern Puglia, so it was in some desperation that I drove through endless olive groves looking for dinner, before entering a village little bigger than a crossroads and stumbling into Antichi Sapori for what turned out to be a mind-blowing feast. Out came fresh ricotta, salami with fennel seeds, pecorino and fava beans for antipasto, followed by pasta with artichoke and bacon sauce, velvety pumpkin and truffle soup and very tender buffalo fillet. When the sweet trolley was parked at the table, laden with ricotta, apple and chocolate cakes, the waiter vanished and I slowly realised the trolley wasn't going anywhere else \u2013 it was all for me. Price: medium\u2022 Piazza Sant'Isidoro 10, Montegrosso di Andria, +39 0883 569529, pietrozito.itThe magnificent salama da sugo, a speciality of Ferrrara, has the most intensely meaty taste one can experience, and it's no wonder. To make it, various parts of the pig, including cheek, shoulder, tongue and liver, are minced, mixed with spices and red wine, stuffed in a pig's bladder and hung for a year. Then mould is scraped off and the package is boiled for hours before being cut open and served, whereupon dark juices ooze from the insanely rich mince and soak into the pile of potato puree served alongside. It's all washed down with strong local red. When I stumbled out of Antica Trattoria Volano after eating it for the first time I thought I would die of heart failure, but after pedalling my rented bike drunkenly around Ferrara's piazzas for half an hour, breathing in the bitterly cold night air, I was ready for pudding. Price: medium-expensive\u2022 Viale Volano 20, Ferrara, +39 0532 761421, anticatrattoriavolano.itAn alley leads from Catania's elegant Piazza Duomo into another world, where the grimy port starts, the smell of the fish market drifts in the trees, railway arches give shelter to stalls selling glasses of fruit juice and the Etoile d'Or bar churns out cheap but excellent snacks 24 hours a day to waves of market stall holders, low-lifes and nightclubbers. The arancini \u2013 massive, deep-fried balls of rice, mozzarella and rag\u00f9 which leave scotch eggs for dead \u2013 are worth the flight from England alone, while the enormous, garishly lit glass display cases are also packed with fresh cannoli and cassata \u2013 the Sicilian sponge and ricotta cream confection covered in icing. Price: cheap\u2022 Via Beato Cardinale 7, Benedetto Dusmet, Catania, +39 095 340 135Dau Bobba serves local hand-caught tuna (pictured) on the idyllic, unspoilt island of San Pietro, off the south-west of Sardinia. The restaurant is tucked away down a sandy road opposite salt pans where flamingos loiter. If that wasn't enough to make it great, I had lunch there with a very smooth Italian journalist who announced: \"When I eat good fish, I insist on drinking only champagne \u2013 and I'm buying.\" Then, to top it all, came the pudding, a warm helping of sheep's cheese covered in honey and washed down with a glass of local passito \u2013 the Italian, nectar-like gold-coloured dessert wine made from sun-dried grapes. Price: expensive \u2022 Localit\u00e0 Segni, Carloforte, San Pietro, +39 078 1854037, ristorantedaubobba.itRome's San Lorenzo neighbourhood, stuck between the train station, the cemetery and a flyover, is now full of student pubs, but keeps its working-class origins alive at Marcello, where I first ate the typical Roman dish pajata di agnello \u2013 lamb's intestines that have been plaited and roasted with rosemary and bacon, turning the mother's milk inside the tube-like intestines into a delicious creamy cheese. At the time, the owner was also using veal intestines, rather than lamb, for that other Roman classic, rigatoni con la pajata. But since the mad cow disease ban on veal, he now uses all the lamb pajata he can get for the more popular pasta dish. That means no more roast lamb pajata \u2013 which is a real shame \u2013 \"unless my supply of intestines increases,\" he told me last week. Price: medium\u2022 Via dei Campani 12, +39 06 4463311The region of Emilia Romagna is reckoned by many to offer the best food in Italy, starting with its prosciutto and parmesan, but the less known bollito misto (pictured), literally mixed boiled meat, is unmissable, hence my trip to Cocchi \u2013 a much-vaunted restaurant on an anonymous busy road on the outskirts of Parma. After a tris di tortelli \u2013 little packets of pasta stuffed with pumpkin, herbs and potato \u2013 a waiter appeared pushing a metal cabinet on wheels out of which he extracted lumps of boiled beef, veal, smooth tongue, cotechino (a fatty pork sausage) and zampone (stuffed pig's trotter), before slicing them finely and serving them with salsa verde and the secret ingredient that really gave the meat zing: mostarda \u2013 a confection of candied fruit and essence of mustard which mixes fruity sweetness with the potent kick of wasabi. Price: expensive\u2022 At the Hotel Daniel, Via Gramsci 16a, +39 0521 981 990, hoteldaniel.biz/ristorante.htmlIt is tricky to do liver well, which is why it worth seeking out Leon D'Oro in the small, medieval town of Leonessa (pictured), where they bind slices of pork liver in small nets of pig fat and bay leaves then grill them slowly on the hearth, giving the liver a wonderfully sweet, slightly burned taste. At an altitude of 1,000m in the Apennines, two hours from Rome, Leonessa is handy for skiing on Mount Terminillo, but is also a cool bolthole from the capital in the summer. Long walks can start or finish at Leon D'Oro, which also does a renowned potato tart cooked with truffle and cheese, and gnocchi with porcini mushrooms and gorgonzola. Price: medium\u2022 Corse San Giuseppe 120, Leonessa, +39 0746 923 320, ristoranteleondoroleonessa.comDuring a holiday on the Sinis peninsula in western Sardinia, which boasts windswept, quartz-crystal beaches and Phoenician ruins, I drove to a warehouse on an industrial estate to buy bottarga, the dried fish roe that Italians slice finely into pasta. On a tip, I stopped in nearby Cabras \u2013 a low-slung, dusty town \u2013 for a fish meal at Zia Belledda, which is still going strong in a backstreet after five decades, and where the massive portions of perfectly deep-fried squid, pasta with courgette, shrimp and bottarga, and steaming plates of fat mussels, served by friendly large women, are matched only by the ridiculously low price. The fregola \u2013 tiny semolina pasta swimming in a clam stew \u2013 was a standout, as was the seada \u2013 a Sardinian, deep-fried pastry stuffed with fresh sheep's cheese and topped with warm honey. Price: medium\u2022 Via Amsicora 43, Cabras, +39 0783 290 801This Easter I took the overnight ferry from Civitavecchia, near Rome, to Trapani, on Sicily's west coast, to see the gruelling 24-hour procession of marching bands and men hefting life-size tableaux from the crucifixion around the baroque streets (pictured). Ravenous and looking for breakfast after the rough overnight crossing, I walked a block from the port to Via Biscottai \u2013 \"street of the biscuit makers\" \u2013 so named in the distant past for the bakers who supplied the docking ships. This end of town was heavily bombed in the war by the Allies, targeting the submarines holed up at the port, and among the new blocks I wandered into a small, unnamed bakery with one table where I was given a warm, soft calzone topped with sesame seeds and filled with prosciutto and mozzarella, followed by a small sugar-crusted pastry filled with tart orange and lemon jam, all for a couple of euros. Price: cheap \u2022 Via Biscottai 45, Trapani, +39 0923 540200 The best hangover cure in Rome on a Sunday morning is the oven-singed ricotta cake dished out by grumpy ladies at the tiny Boccione bakery in the old Jewish ghetto. After slavering over the smell wafting out of the door as you queue for hours, panicking that they might run out, you need to decide in a hurry at the counter between the chocolate or wild cherry version of the cake, and whether to splurge on the pizze \u2013 heavy squares of scone-like dough baked with candied fruit, almonds, pine nuts, raisins and burned on top \u2013 so delicious even Pope Benedict reportedly has it delivered. The fast turnover means the goods are warm and best consumed immediately, on the street, in front of envious queuers before a brisk walk down the Tiber. Price: cheap\u2022 Via del Portico d'Ottavio 1, +39 06 687 8637", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Restaurants", "Rome holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Life and style", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Top 10s"], "title": "My top 10 restaurant meals in Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:44:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's strange papyrus-like visage is looming over Italian politics again. So much does he resemble something brought up from the underworld that the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration headlined its story on his decision to seek a new term as prime minister \"Return of the Mummy\".Europe and Italy have reason to know that Berlusconi's considerable political talents have never been allied to a commensurate seriousness of purpose, yet he has repeatedly re-invented himself and found success at the polls. Is another resurrection possible? The answer seems to be that a further stint in high office is almost certainly beyond his grasp. The polls do show a high percentage of undecided voters, and he has always been good at attracting those. But they also show Italian voters pulling in at least a half-dozen different directions. On the evidence of those polls Berlusconi's party would take less than 20%, with the centre-left Democratic party well ahead with more than 30% and the rest split between Beppe Grillo's populist Five Star movement and a scatter of smaller parties.Italy was due to hold general elections in March or April next year anyway, after its widely respected caretaker prime minister, Mario Monti, left office. So in a sense Berlusconi's decision to withdraw support for the Monti government merely brings forward the date of that election by, at the most, a few weeks. But Berlusconi's move will nevertheless do much damage.It will deprive the Monti government of the orderly end to its period in power that it deserved. It will almost certainly mean that much useful legislation in the pipeline will have to be discarded. And it will undermine the reputation for stability that Monti, in a relatively short period, has been able to establish in the rest of the European Union and, above all, in Germany. Finally, it will set the scene for an Italian general election campaign dominated by a simplistic view of the crisis in the eurozone, and one that could easily degenerate into a series of anti-German tirades.This is the way Berlusconi has been leaning since his reluctant decision to support the Monti government just over a year ago. His family newspaper sniped at Monti from the beginning, even as his Freedom People party supported him in parliament.One does not have to be an enthusiast for Monti's conservative brand of economics or a supporter of austerity programmes either in Italy or elsewhere to grasp that he has brought some order and coherence to the European political landscape. Berlusconi proclaims that he is coming back out of a \"sense of responsibility\". But harrying and hustling the Monti government to a ragged end is the reverse of responsible. It is the action of a wrecker.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: the Mummy's return | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:44:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's strange papyrus-like visage is looming over Italian politics again. So much does he resemble something brought up from the underworld that the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration headlined its story on his decision to seek a new term as prime minister \"Return of the Mummy\".Europe and Italy have reason to know that Berlusconi's considerable political talents have never been allied to a commensurate seriousness of purpose, yet he has repeatedly re-invented himself and found success at the polls. Is another resurrection possible? The answer seems to be that a further stint in high office is almost certainly beyond his grasp. The polls do show a high percentage of undecided voters, and he has always been good at attracting those. But they also show Italian voters pulling in at least a half-dozen different directions. On the evidence of those polls Berlusconi's party would take less than 20%, with the centre-left Democratic party well ahead with more than 30% and the rest split between Beppe Grillo's populist Five Star movement and a scatter of smaller parties.Italy was due to hold general elections in March or April next year anyway, after its widely respected caretaker prime minister, Mario Monti, left office. So in a sense Berlusconi's decision to withdraw support for the Monti government merely brings forward the date of that election by, at the most, a few weeks. But Berlusconi's move will nevertheless do much damage.It will deprive the Monti government of the orderly end to its period in power that it deserved. It will almost certainly mean that much useful legislation in the pipeline will have to be discarded. And it will undermine the reputation for stability that Monti, in a relatively short period, has been able to establish in the rest of the European Union and, above all, in Germany. Finally, it will set the scene for an Italian general election campaign dominated by a simplistic view of the crisis in the eurozone, and one that could easily degenerate into a series of anti-German tirades.This is the way Berlusconi has been leaning since his reluctant decision to support the Monti government just over a year ago. His family newspaper sniped at Monti from the beginning, even as his Freedom People party supported him in parliament.One does not have to be an enthusiast for Monti's conservative brand of economics or a supporter of austerity programmes either in Italy or elsewhere to grasp that he has brought some order and coherence to the European political landscape. Berlusconi proclaims that he is coming back out of a \"sense of responsibility\". But harrying and hustling the Monti government to a ragged end is the reverse of responsible. It is the action of a wrecker.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: the Mummy's return | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-10-23T16:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On Monday, seven Italian seismologists were sentenced to six years' jail for manslaughter for not predicting an earthquake that hit the city of L'Aquila in 2009, killing 300 people. It's not the first verdict that has caused jaws to drop there.In February 1999 an appeal court overturned the rape conviction of a 45-year-old man after noting his 18-year-old victim had been wearing jeans. \"It is common knowledge,\" ruled the court, \"that jeans cannot even be partly removed without the help of the person wearing them ... and it is impossible if the victim is struggling with all her might.\"Eight years into her degree in philosophy, Marina Casagrande, 32, was still living at home and took offence when her father tried to halt her \u20ac350-a-month allowance. So did a judge, who ordered her dad to keep up the payments and hand over \u20ac12,000 in arrears.Italy's highest court of appeal this summer decided it is crime to tell someone \"You don't have the balls\" after a lawyer sued his cousin for hurling the insult. In its ruling, the court said the insult implied a \"lack of determination, competence and consistency \u2013 virtues which, rightly or wrongly, continue to be regarded as suggestive of the male sex\".Vatican judges are called upon to annul marriages by couples who do not want to divorce since they would not then be allowed to remarry in church. Annulments are supposed to be issued only in exceptional circumstances, but popes often rail against their judges for accepting the dodgiest motivations, including, in 2006, the fact that one husband was too attached to his mother.", "tags": ["Italy", "Law"], "title": "Court verdicts that shocked Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:44:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's strange papyrus-like visage is looming over Italian politics again. So much does he resemble something brought up from the underworld that the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration headlined its story on his decision to seek a new term as prime minister \"Return of the Mummy\".Europe and Italy have reason to know that Berlusconi's considerable political talents have never been allied to a commensurate seriousness of purpose, yet he has repeatedly re-invented himself and found success at the polls. Is another resurrection possible? The answer seems to be that a further stint in high office is almost certainly beyond his grasp. The polls do show a high percentage of undecided voters, and he has always been good at attracting those. But they also show Italian voters pulling in at least a half-dozen different directions. On the evidence of those polls Berlusconi's party would take less than 20%, with the centre-left Democratic party well ahead with more than 30% and the rest split between Beppe Grillo's populist Five Star movement and a scatter of smaller parties.Italy was due to hold general elections in March or April next year anyway, after its widely respected caretaker prime minister, Mario Monti, left office. So in a sense Berlusconi's decision to withdraw support for the Monti government merely brings forward the date of that election by, at the most, a few weeks. But Berlusconi's move will nevertheless do much damage.It will deprive the Monti government of the orderly end to its period in power that it deserved. It will almost certainly mean that much useful legislation in the pipeline will have to be discarded. And it will undermine the reputation for stability that Monti, in a relatively short period, has been able to establish in the rest of the European Union and, above all, in Germany. Finally, it will set the scene for an Italian general election campaign dominated by a simplistic view of the crisis in the eurozone, and one that could easily degenerate into a series of anti-German tirades.This is the way Berlusconi has been leaning since his reluctant decision to support the Monti government just over a year ago. His family newspaper sniped at Monti from the beginning, even as his Freedom People party supported him in parliament.One does not have to be an enthusiast for Monti's conservative brand of economics or a supporter of austerity programmes either in Italy or elsewhere to grasp that he has brought some order and coherence to the European political landscape. Berlusconi proclaims that he is coming back out of a \"sense of responsibility\". But harrying and hustling the Monti government to a ragged end is the reverse of responsible. It is the action of a wrecker.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: the Mummy's return | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-10-23T16:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On Monday, seven Italian seismologists were sentenced to six years' jail for manslaughter for not predicting an earthquake that hit the city of L'Aquila in 2009, killing 300 people. It's not the first verdict that has caused jaws to drop there.In February 1999 an appeal court overturned the rape conviction of a 45-year-old man after noting his 18-year-old victim had been wearing jeans. \"It is common knowledge,\" ruled the court, \"that jeans cannot even be partly removed without the help of the person wearing them ... and it is impossible if the victim is struggling with all her might.\"Eight years into her degree in philosophy, Marina Casagrande, 32, was still living at home and took offence when her father tried to halt her \u20ac350-a-month allowance. So did a judge, who ordered her dad to keep up the payments and hand over \u20ac12,000 in arrears.Italy's highest court of appeal this summer decided it is crime to tell someone \"You don't have the balls\" after a lawyer sued his cousin for hurling the insult. In its ruling, the court said the insult implied a \"lack of determination, competence and consistency \u2013 virtues which, rightly or wrongly, continue to be regarded as suggestive of the male sex\".Vatican judges are called upon to annul marriages by couples who do not want to divorce since they would not then be allowed to remarry in church. Annulments are supposed to be issued only in exceptional circumstances, but popes often rail against their judges for accepting the dodgiest motivations, including, in 2006, the fact that one husband was too attached to his mother.", "tags": ["Italy", "Law"], "title": "Court verdicts that shocked Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-25T19:52:36Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is to press on with plans to open 1,000 new gambling arcades despite mounting national anguish over the spread of pathological gambling in what until recently was a nation of frugal savers.Silvio Berlusconi's last government authorised the new video-poker saloons in 2011. A contest to decide who should get the licences is due to be held by the end of January.The non-party government of Mario Monti made a last-ditch bid to suspend the competition by another six months. But a clause inserted in the 2013 budget was thrown out in committee as lawmakers raced to clear the way for the dissolution of parliament last Saturday.Under pressure to boost state revenues and pay off Italy's huge public debts, successive governments have relaxed the country's once-strict gambling laws. The first significant change was in 1994 when scratch-card lotteries were legalised.But it was not until the mid-2000s that gambling mania really seized Italy. By 2010, according to figures compiled by Global Betting and Gaming Consultants, Italy's per capita spending on betting was the fifth highest in the world, excluding countries such as Monaco, where gambling is a central part of the economy.Simone Feder, a psychologist and adviser to the juvenile court in Milan, also works with a Roman Catholic church-run refuge in Pavia that caters to, among others, addicts of all kinds. He remembers 2004 as \"the year the punters began knocking at the door\".Among those staying at the refuge before Christmas was Caterina Rossini whose real name the Guardian agreed to conceal on grounds of privacy. The wife of a Turin shopkeeper, she described how she had been reduced to penury by her husband's compulsion. \"He had been gambling for years, but I didn't realise it,\" she said. \"At the start, he went to casinos and played the lottery. But about 10 years ago, he switched to scratch cards.\"I'd say things like: 'This month, we don't seem to have as much cash as I thought.' But I had no idea how much he was spending.\" By the time she found out, his losses came to \u20ac60,000. There was no option but to sell the house they owned to meet his debts. Once they had paid off the mortgage, there was nothing left. At the age of 50, she was planning to start work as a cleaner to earn the rent.\"In a final, terrible gesture, [my husband] stole my jewellery and sold it,\" she said. He had made \u20ac3,800 \u2013 and spent it all on scratch-cards.Her husband was one of several compulsive gamblers in her immediate neighbourhood, Rossini said. \"There are a lot of men who go around saying: 'My wife works. I gamble.'\"In November, a bar owner in the town of Cremona, south of Milan, won national notoriety after it was reported she had ordered the removal of gambling machines from her premises, foregoing a monthly income of some \u20ac2,700. Monica Pavesi was quoted as saying: \"I couldn't bear any longer to see people ruining themselves in that way.\"Feder said that, despite the rise in cases of pathological gambling, \"it is still not recognised [by the authorities] as an addiction\". Sufferers could not, as a result, be treated in the national health system.Because of that, there is no reliable estimate of the number of addicts. A religious NGO, Associazione Libera, has put the figure at 800,000.Earlier this month, officials in predominantly German-speaking South Tyrol reported that the number of compulsive gamblers who had sought help in the province had risen by 76% in 12 months. The figure was released as the authorities there announced a ban on slot machines within 300 metres of \"sensitive locations\" such as schools, youth clubs, retirement homes and hospitals.A spokesman for the gambling industry's representative body said it was preparing to challenge the order, describing it as \"a way of fuelling illegal gaming\". The industry is, however, co-operating with new measures introduced by the government in Rome which will require gambling machines to carry \"health warnings\" and an indication of the odds against winning.According to the latest estimates, the total amount gambled in Italy has dipped slightly this year as the recession and tax increases ordered by the Monti government have bitten into household budgets. But until 2011, the industry appeared to be immune to the effects of the eurozone crisis. On the contrary, said Feder, there was evidence to suggest that many Italians had reacted to a downturn in their disposable incomes by turning to gambling in the belief they could make up the difference with winnings.The same conviction was held by a lot of young people.In June, he carried out a survey of almost 2,000 secondary school students in Pavia. He found that 5% of those interviewed had a close relative who was a habitual gambler.But the most disturbing conclusion, he said, came when the teenagers \u2014 average age 15 \u2013 were asked why people gambled. By far the most common response \u2014 given by 57% of interviewees \u2013 was \"to get rich\".\"In fact, of course, it is always the 'bank' that wins,\" he said.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Gambling"], "title": "Gambling addiction takes its toll in Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:44:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi's strange papyrus-like visage is looming over Italian politics again. So much does he resemble something brought up from the underworld that the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration headlined its story on his decision to seek a new term as prime minister \"Return of the Mummy\".Europe and Italy have reason to know that Berlusconi's considerable political talents have never been allied to a commensurate seriousness of purpose, yet he has repeatedly re-invented himself and found success at the polls. Is another resurrection possible? The answer seems to be that a further stint in high office is almost certainly beyond his grasp. The polls do show a high percentage of undecided voters, and he has always been good at attracting those. But they also show Italian voters pulling in at least a half-dozen different directions. On the evidence of those polls Berlusconi's party would take less than 20%, with the centre-left Democratic party well ahead with more than 30% and the rest split between Beppe Grillo's populist Five Star movement and a scatter of smaller parties.Italy was due to hold general elections in March or April next year anyway, after its widely respected caretaker prime minister, Mario Monti, left office. So in a sense Berlusconi's decision to withdraw support for the Monti government merely brings forward the date of that election by, at the most, a few weeks. But Berlusconi's move will nevertheless do much damage.It will deprive the Monti government of the orderly end to its period in power that it deserved. It will almost certainly mean that much useful legislation in the pipeline will have to be discarded. And it will undermine the reputation for stability that Monti, in a relatively short period, has been able to establish in the rest of the European Union and, above all, in Germany. Finally, it will set the scene for an Italian general election campaign dominated by a simplistic view of the crisis in the eurozone, and one that could easily degenerate into a series of anti-German tirades.This is the way Berlusconi has been leaning since his reluctant decision to support the Monti government just over a year ago. His family newspaper sniped at Monti from the beginning, even as his Freedom People party supported him in parliament.One does not have to be an enthusiast for Monti's conservative brand of economics or a supporter of austerity programmes either in Italy or elsewhere to grasp that he has brought some order and coherence to the European political landscape. Berlusconi proclaims that he is coming back out of a \"sense of responsibility\". But harrying and hustling the Monti government to a ragged end is the reverse of responsible. It is the action of a wrecker.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: the Mummy's return | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-10-23T16:30:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "On Monday, seven Italian seismologists were sentenced to six years' jail for manslaughter for not predicting an earthquake that hit the city of L'Aquila in 2009, killing 300 people. It's not the first verdict that has caused jaws to drop there.In February 1999 an appeal court overturned the rape conviction of a 45-year-old man after noting his 18-year-old victim had been wearing jeans. \"It is common knowledge,\" ruled the court, \"that jeans cannot even be partly removed without the help of the person wearing them ... and it is impossible if the victim is struggling with all her might.\"Eight years into her degree in philosophy, Marina Casagrande, 32, was still living at home and took offence when her father tried to halt her \u20ac350-a-month allowance. So did a judge, who ordered her dad to keep up the payments and hand over \u20ac12,000 in arrears.Italy's highest court of appeal this summer decided it is crime to tell someone \"You don't have the balls\" after a lawyer sued his cousin for hurling the insult. In its ruling, the court said the insult implied a \"lack of determination, competence and consistency \u2013 virtues which, rightly or wrongly, continue to be regarded as suggestive of the male sex\".Vatican judges are called upon to annul marriages by couples who do not want to divorce since they would not then be allowed to remarry in church. Annulments are supposed to be issued only in exceptional circumstances, but popes often rail against their judges for accepting the dodgiest motivations, including, in 2006, the fact that one husband was too attached to his mother.", "tags": ["Italy", "Law"], "title": "Court verdicts that shocked Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-25T19:52:36Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is to press on with plans to open 1,000 new gambling arcades despite mounting national anguish over the spread of pathological gambling in what until recently was a nation of frugal savers.Silvio Berlusconi's last government authorised the new video-poker saloons in 2011. A contest to decide who should get the licences is due to be held by the end of January.The non-party government of Mario Monti made a last-ditch bid to suspend the competition by another six months. But a clause inserted in the 2013 budget was thrown out in committee as lawmakers raced to clear the way for the dissolution of parliament last Saturday.Under pressure to boost state revenues and pay off Italy's huge public debts, successive governments have relaxed the country's once-strict gambling laws. The first significant change was in 1994 when scratch-card lotteries were legalised.But it was not until the mid-2000s that gambling mania really seized Italy. By 2010, according to figures compiled by Global Betting and Gaming Consultants, Italy's per capita spending on betting was the fifth highest in the world, excluding countries such as Monaco, where gambling is a central part of the economy.Simone Feder, a psychologist and adviser to the juvenile court in Milan, also works with a Roman Catholic church-run refuge in Pavia that caters to, among others, addicts of all kinds. He remembers 2004 as \"the year the punters began knocking at the door\".Among those staying at the refuge before Christmas was Caterina Rossini whose real name the Guardian agreed to conceal on grounds of privacy. The wife of a Turin shopkeeper, she described how she had been reduced to penury by her husband's compulsion. \"He had been gambling for years, but I didn't realise it,\" she said. \"At the start, he went to casinos and played the lottery. But about 10 years ago, he switched to scratch cards.\"I'd say things like: 'This month, we don't seem to have as much cash as I thought.' But I had no idea how much he was spending.\" By the time she found out, his losses came to \u20ac60,000. There was no option but to sell the house they owned to meet his debts. Once they had paid off the mortgage, there was nothing left. At the age of 50, she was planning to start work as a cleaner to earn the rent.\"In a final, terrible gesture, [my husband] stole my jewellery and sold it,\" she said. He had made \u20ac3,800 \u2013 and spent it all on scratch-cards.Her husband was one of several compulsive gamblers in her immediate neighbourhood, Rossini said. \"There are a lot of men who go around saying: 'My wife works. I gamble.'\"In November, a bar owner in the town of Cremona, south of Milan, won national notoriety after it was reported she had ordered the removal of gambling machines from her premises, foregoing a monthly income of some \u20ac2,700. Monica Pavesi was quoted as saying: \"I couldn't bear any longer to see people ruining themselves in that way.\"Feder said that, despite the rise in cases of pathological gambling, \"it is still not recognised [by the authorities] as an addiction\". Sufferers could not, as a result, be treated in the national health system.Because of that, there is no reliable estimate of the number of addicts. A religious NGO, Associazione Libera, has put the figure at 800,000.Earlier this month, officials in predominantly German-speaking South Tyrol reported that the number of compulsive gamblers who had sought help in the province had risen by 76% in 12 months. The figure was released as the authorities there announced a ban on slot machines within 300 metres of \"sensitive locations\" such as schools, youth clubs, retirement homes and hospitals.A spokesman for the gambling industry's representative body said it was preparing to challenge the order, describing it as \"a way of fuelling illegal gaming\". The industry is, however, co-operating with new measures introduced by the government in Rome which will require gambling machines to carry \"health warnings\" and an indication of the odds against winning.According to the latest estimates, the total amount gambled in Italy has dipped slightly this year as the recession and tax increases ordered by the Monti government have bitten into household budgets. But until 2011, the industry appeared to be immune to the effects of the eurozone crisis. On the contrary, said Feder, there was evidence to suggest that many Italians had reacted to a downturn in their disposable incomes by turning to gambling in the belief they could make up the difference with winnings.The same conviction was held by a lot of young people.In June, he carried out a survey of almost 2,000 secondary school students in Pavia. He found that 5% of those interviewed had a close relative who was a habitual gambler.But the most disturbing conclusion, he said, came when the teenagers \u2014 average age 15 \u2013 were asked why people gambled. By far the most common response \u2014 given by 57% of interviewees \u2013 was \"to get rich\".\"In fact, of course, it is always the 'bank' that wins,\" he said.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Gambling"], "title": "Gambling addiction takes its toll in Italy"},{"date": "2012-12-20T11:08:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The role and impact of social enterprise can be evaluated in many ways. We can look at the sectors in which these enterprises traditionally work \u2013 social and educational services, employment inclusion for disadvantaged people \u2013 but that is not enough.The social enterprise field is expanding fast. Despite the risk of dissolving into a multiplicity of experiences and approaches, it deserves to be analysed in a way that takes into account recent and 'borderline' expressions. After all, innovation is often fuelled by paths and ways of thinking which diverge from the mainstream.For example, the contribution of social enterprise can be measured within the wider ecosystem of start-ups which are not only technology related but also have a 'social mission'. This was endorsed in a recent 'Restart, Italia!' report produced by an Italian government task force. This point of view is important in understanding the trends of a sector in which the driving force is represented by generating explicit and reportable social impact, benefitting people and local communities which are going through a phase of profound change.Iris Network's second edition of the report on social enterprise in Italy is a useful source for updating the numbers, legal and organisational models, activities and, not least, business models. The sector's core is made up of around 12,500 units: a few, 365, are social enterprises formed in accordance with a 2006 law which introduced a legal definition. A larger block is made up of social cooperatives, which is the historical social enterprise model that set the trend at a European level. In a peripheral position, but gradually moving towards the mainstream, two reservoirs of potential social entrepreneurship are emerging. The first is the non-profit sphere: around 22,000 associations, volunteer organisations and foundations are registered with chambers of commerce across Italy, meaning that they have a productive aspect. The second is made up of more than 88,000 for-profit businesses that operate in certain sectors with a high social impact, such as social services, cultural production, education, the environment and others. In fact Italian law recognises a social enterprise because it is active in specific fields. Naturally, this does not mean that these are social enterprises in every respect, but it is a useful measure for defining the new frontline for production with social value between for-profit and non-profit. In other words, the frontier along which \"shared value\" is being created, as elaborated upon by Michael Porter and Mark Kramer in Creating Shared Value.How can social enterprises be equipped to withstand this challenge? And what teachings can today's start-ups draw from several decades of history?The first lesson concerns the emphasis on the community as both an objective and a productive factor for the social enterprise. The involvement of a multiplicity of actors, who are the principal beneficiaries, represents a mission for old and new social enterprises, with the former struggling because of an excessive dependence on public administration. From this point of view, the innovation of new-generation social start-ups lies in their capacity to connect together digital and physical communities, for example through the use of proximity apps able to structure localised social networks.A second factor concerns the formation and functionality of networks: the most innovative social enterprise experiences work to construct true cooperative districts where the means and aims of the entrepreneurial action are shared with the stakeholders. In this sense, social start-ups can contribute to encouraging the collective aspect of production and consumption in several ways. For example, through applying 'wiki' methods to planning and strategy and also by building leadership of democratic and participatory enterprises through a kind of 'e-governance' of the enterprise and the local area.The third element concerns the sustainability of the enterprise, in regard to which the more established social enterprises have finally started to act. Some are integrating self-generated resources \u2013 and 68% of social enterprises claim to be self-financing \u2013 with dedicated financial products that allow investments able to scale innovation up to big numbers. It is no coincidence that a few weeks ago saw the launch of the first national social bond, which collects capital at market rates and then distributes it under favourable conditions to social enterprise development projects.Finally, human capital. Compared to other business forms, social enterprises have real biodiversity here as models of shared entrepreneurship; 68% of social enterprises are developed by a group of people who share a common interest. Therefore it is important to focus on management practices which can respond to complex motivation, where the economic incentive is substantially integrated with sophisticated non-economic incentives.Drawing this together, it should be possible to construct a policy agenda which is able to combine data from past experience and the innovative contributions made by the various generations of Italian social entrepreneurs. Putting social impact was at the centre was recently exemplified in a seemingly unlikely place. At the architecture Biennale in Venice, the United States pavilion was hung with dozens of banners describing social innovation projects. As a banner was pulled down to read more about the project, it triggered the lifting of a counterweight, revealing the problem the project was intended to solve.Paolo Venturi is director \u2013 AICCON Research Institute on Co-operation and Social Economy at University of Bologna. Flaviano Zandonai is content co-ordinator at the Iris Network and works for the communications team at Euricse \u2013 the European research institute on co-operatives and social enterprise This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Ethical business", "Business", "Small business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Social enterprise"], "title": "The challenges for social enterprises in Italy"},{"date": "2013-02-20T23:14:48Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The European economic crisis and the austerity policies that came in its wake have had a deforming effect on democracy in almost every member state. Politicians in power have had to defend decisions they deem unavoidable even where they privately believe them to be wrong, hoping only to wrest a little popularity from marginal successes in limiting cuts or from blips here and there in the employment or the trade figures.Politicians out of power have had to try to make the most of the small differences \u2013 that they would not cut as much, that they would cut a bit differently \u2013 that divide them from those in government. Others, some out of conviction and some simply in pursuit of advantage, have identified a constituency of anger and discontent ripe for exploitation. This is a rich vote bank on which to draw, and nowhere has this been truer than in Italy, which goes to the polls this weekend in a general election whose results could have an impact well beyond its borders.There Silvio Berlusconi has managed to re-emerge again, for the umpteenth time, as a leading player in Italian politics by casting himself as the champion of ordinary folk against a heartless Europe and particularly against a mindlessly rigorous Germany. He has underlined this undoubtedly appealing message by promising to end the tax on primary homes introduced in 2012 by the outgoing prime minister, Mario Monti, and to refund last year's payments, if the political alliance he leads in all but name should be victorious. If this spooks the markets, as it might, interest rates for Italian bonds could shoot into the stratosphere again.The publication of opinion polls was stopped by law a few days ago but until recently they suggested that the Berlusconi campaign was working. The lead enjoyed by the centre-left coalition of Pier Luigi Bersani was eroding, support for Berlusconi's People of Freedom party and its ally the Northern League was growing, while Monti's centrist coalition and the maverick Five Star Movement, an anti-party led by the comedian Beppe Grillo, each hovered at the 15% mark. This kind of arithmetic is not good news. Italy could end up with a coalition between Bersani and Monti, a lacklustre but adequate result, or it could find Berlusconi back in power again, even if this time he would probably be behind the throne rather than on it.That would be an unhappy moment for Italy. Berlusconi, three times prime minister, has promised but never delivered reform in any area. He has bent the Italian legal system to his personal advantage, dominated and degraded much of the Italian media, and turned national life into a soap opera about himself. In power again, he could take decisions which might lead to Italy leaving the eurozone. Under him, Italy might well demand a bailout, but if it came with a new austerity package, the result might be a return to the lira. The lurching, patched-up structure which is the eurozone might not be able to contain the damage.Pity the poor Germans, upon whose shoulders rests the principal responsibility for keeping Europe going, with Italy at one end of the continent playing with fire and Britain at the other doing the same. But that is not to say that the policies Germany has been instrumental in shaping are the right ones.The slogan of Bersani's Democratic party is L'Italia Giusta, \"The Right Italy\". Bersani said in a recent interview that this means \"a country restored \u2013 from a moral standpoint\". While campaigning he said he had found \"a very angry Italy\" but one which understood that \"protests by themselves will lead us nowhere\". But, as he implies, \"The Right Italy\" needs a \"Right Europe\" of which it can be a part. The most recent, informal polls suggest that the Berlusconi bandwagon is faltering a little in this last week. If so, the critical questions will be whether undecided voters will drift off toward the essentially irrelevant figure of Grillo, or whether they will listen to Bersani's sensible if sobering message.", "tags": ["Italy", "Italian elections 2013", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business", "Silvio Berlusconi"], "title": "Europe: the Right Italy | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:32:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a package of measures it hopes will help bring down high levels of youth unemployment as the eurozone's third-largest economy continues to limp through a two-year recession.Faced with 42% of 15- to 24-year-olds out of work, the prime minister, Enrico Letta, identified the \"plague\" of youth joblessness as one of his coalition government's priorities. At a press conference on Wednesday he said he hoped measures including tax breaks for employers who hire certain under-30s on permanent contracts would boost young people's prospects.At the same time the package was aimed at easing the employment of people on temporary contracts, and stimulating training, apprentice and internship schemes. Letta said the majority of the \u20ac1.5bn effort \u2013\u00a0a\u00a0mixture of national and European structural funds \u2013 would be particularly focused on the south of Italy, where general unemployment is higher than the national average and joblessness among the young is particularly severe, at over 35%, according to Istat, the national statistics agency.He said the government estimated that around 200,000 young people would be helped into work over the next 18 months as a result of the measures, adding that they allowed him to go to a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels on Friday with \"solid arguments to fight a great battle, a European battle\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Business"], "title": "Italy agrees measures to tackle youth unemployment"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:32:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a package of measures it hopes will help bring down high levels of youth unemployment as the eurozone's third-largest economy continues to limp through a two-year recession.Faced with 42% of 15- to 24-year-olds out of work, the prime minister, Enrico Letta, identified the \"plague\" of youth joblessness as one of his coalition government's priorities. At a press conference on Wednesday he said he hoped measures including tax breaks for employers who hire certain under-30s on permanent contracts would boost young people's prospects.At the same time the package was aimed at easing the employment of people on temporary contracts, and stimulating training, apprentice and internship schemes. Letta said the majority of the \u20ac1.5bn effort \u2013\u00a0a\u00a0mixture of national and European structural funds \u2013 would be particularly focused on the south of Italy, where general unemployment is higher than the national average and joblessness among the young is particularly severe, at over 35%, according to Istat, the national statistics agency.He said the government estimated that around 200,000 young people would be helped into work over the next 18 months as a result of the measures, adding that they allowed him to go to a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels on Friday with \"solid arguments to fight a great battle, a European battle\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Business"], "title": "Italy agrees measures to tackle youth unemployment"},{"date": "2013-06-03T06:08:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For the design-conscious on a budget, Campeggio Fusina, created in 1959 by the modernist Venetian architect Carlo Scarpa, offers inexpensive camping with a view across the lagoon to Venice (prices from \u20ac8.50 for a tent to \u20ac92 for a static caravan). The channel just offshore treats you to a close-up of passing ships en route to Porto Marghera, Venice's industrial secret.+ 39\u00a0041 5470055, camping-fusina.comkesselPositanoRifugio Degli Dei is a family-run farmhouse that you'll only find after walking up 100 or so very steep steps \u2013 the view, the warm welcome, the beautiful apartments and the spectacular food (freshly made by mamma from produce grown on site) is worth the exhausting climb. +39\u00a0339 839 0809, rifugiodeglidei.it. Rooms from \u20ac40 B&B per personprateekbuchBussana VecchiaThis is a sun-drenched hilltop village that was devastated by an earthquake in 1887 and brought back to life by a colony of artists who settled here in the 1960s. It has a unique hippy charm, stunning architecture and artist ateliers. Go there now, and you may be able to check out \u2013 for free, however donations are appreciated \u2013 one of the largest model railways in Italy, with hundreds of metres of tracks winding through tiny stations and mountains. To find it ask locals for the plastico ferroviario, or follow the signs if you are lucky enough to find them. There are also a couple of B&Bs in town, with rooms starting from \u20ac70. Drive down the hill and you will find some of the best beaches in the area, some of them with free access.robbielondonSerramonacescaTry self-catering with a difference in the beautiful, unspoilt Abruzzo. Bring your own tent or rent one of the gorgeous resident canvas bell tents, sleep in \"Rosemary\", the retired VW camper van, or select one of the in-house self-catering options. Climb, walk, bike, swim or chill amid the spectacular foothills of the Apennines, with the Adriatic's undiscovered beaches less than 40\u00a0minutes away. Serramonesca is two hours from Rome and easily accessible by rail.+39 333 4636075, kokopellicamping.co.uk, camping from \u20ac20 a night for twojillapCuneoLa Randoulina is a great slow-food restaurant in the Valle Staura, west of Cuneo. There is no menu, or prices, but they ask your preference of fish or meat, or if you're vegetarian; then they start bringing food to your table. Delicious local food: boar pat\u00e9, steak tartar, aubergine tart, fish vol au vent just for your starters. The menu changes according to the season. The bill came to \u20ac40 for one including a great bottle of Nebbiolo d'Alba. Not dirt cheap, but very good value for seven or eight courses.larandoulina.comrelatorAl Bocon di Vino and Bacareto da LeleThese must be the cheapest drinks in Venice. Wine sells for 80\u00a2 a glass at the Bacareto, and you can have a glass of prosecco for \u20ac2 at the Bocon. You buy at the bar and there is limited seating at the Bocon, while at the Bacareto you simply sit on the stepped area at the edge of the canal. Bacareto is in Campo dei Tolentini in Santa Croce near the Piazzale Roma bus station, and Bocon is in Campo Santa Margharita, Dorsoduro.albocondivino.itlogie88Villaggio Europa, GradoGrado is a sunny, sandy peninsula between Venice and Trieste. The best campsite is Villaggio Europa, which has its own stretch of beach, a water park, and chalets sleeping six from \u20ac62 a night.+39 0431 80877, villaggioeuropa.comlizbouI travelled the length of Italy on my Honda motorbike. Because I was on my own and wanted company in the evenings, each night I stayed in a youth hostel. This turned out to be a great idea and, besides having a wide variety of different people to chat with, I stayed in splendid buildings and ate authentic food (although not at all hostels, I should say). And of course, they're incredibly cheap. that Some can be tricky to find: I had no satnav so spent a lot of time asking for directions.hihostels.comjohnboy47", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Budget travel", "Self-catering", "Summer holidays", "Camping holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Cheap holidays in Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:32:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a package of measures it hopes will help bring down high levels of youth unemployment as the eurozone's third-largest economy continues to limp through a two-year recession.Faced with 42% of 15- to 24-year-olds out of work, the prime minister, Enrico Letta, identified the \"plague\" of youth joblessness as one of his coalition government's priorities. At a press conference on Wednesday he said he hoped measures including tax breaks for employers who hire certain under-30s on permanent contracts would boost young people's prospects.At the same time the package was aimed at easing the employment of people on temporary contracts, and stimulating training, apprentice and internship schemes. Letta said the majority of the \u20ac1.5bn effort \u2013\u00a0a\u00a0mixture of national and European structural funds \u2013 would be particularly focused on the south of Italy, where general unemployment is higher than the national average and joblessness among the young is particularly severe, at over 35%, according to Istat, the national statistics agency.He said the government estimated that around 200,000 young people would be helped into work over the next 18 months as a result of the measures, adding that they allowed him to go to a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels on Friday with \"solid arguments to fight a great battle, a European battle\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Business"], "title": "Italy agrees measures to tackle youth unemployment"},{"date": "2013-06-03T06:08:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For the design-conscious on a budget, Campeggio Fusina, created in 1959 by the modernist Venetian architect Carlo Scarpa, offers inexpensive camping with a view across the lagoon to Venice (prices from \u20ac8.50 for a tent to \u20ac92 for a static caravan). The channel just offshore treats you to a close-up of passing ships en route to Porto Marghera, Venice's industrial secret.+ 39\u00a0041 5470055, camping-fusina.comkesselPositanoRifugio Degli Dei is a family-run farmhouse that you'll only find after walking up 100 or so very steep steps \u2013 the view, the warm welcome, the beautiful apartments and the spectacular food (freshly made by mamma from produce grown on site) is worth the exhausting climb. +39\u00a0339 839 0809, rifugiodeglidei.it. Rooms from \u20ac40 B&B per personprateekbuchBussana VecchiaThis is a sun-drenched hilltop village that was devastated by an earthquake in 1887 and brought back to life by a colony of artists who settled here in the 1960s. It has a unique hippy charm, stunning architecture and artist ateliers. Go there now, and you may be able to check out \u2013 for free, however donations are appreciated \u2013 one of the largest model railways in Italy, with hundreds of metres of tracks winding through tiny stations and mountains. To find it ask locals for the plastico ferroviario, or follow the signs if you are lucky enough to find them. There are also a couple of B&Bs in town, with rooms starting from \u20ac70. Drive down the hill and you will find some of the best beaches in the area, some of them with free access.robbielondonSerramonacescaTry self-catering with a difference in the beautiful, unspoilt Abruzzo. Bring your own tent or rent one of the gorgeous resident canvas bell tents, sleep in \"Rosemary\", the retired VW camper van, or select one of the in-house self-catering options. Climb, walk, bike, swim or chill amid the spectacular foothills of the Apennines, with the Adriatic's undiscovered beaches less than 40\u00a0minutes away. Serramonesca is two hours from Rome and easily accessible by rail.+39 333 4636075, kokopellicamping.co.uk, camping from \u20ac20 a night for twojillapCuneoLa Randoulina is a great slow-food restaurant in the Valle Staura, west of Cuneo. There is no menu, or prices, but they ask your preference of fish or meat, or if you're vegetarian; then they start bringing food to your table. Delicious local food: boar pat\u00e9, steak tartar, aubergine tart, fish vol au vent just for your starters. The menu changes according to the season. The bill came to \u20ac40 for one including a great bottle of Nebbiolo d'Alba. Not dirt cheap, but very good value for seven or eight courses.larandoulina.comrelatorAl Bocon di Vino and Bacareto da LeleThese must be the cheapest drinks in Venice. Wine sells for 80\u00a2 a glass at the Bacareto, and you can have a glass of prosecco for \u20ac2 at the Bocon. You buy at the bar and there is limited seating at the Bocon, while at the Bacareto you simply sit on the stepped area at the edge of the canal. Bacareto is in Campo dei Tolentini in Santa Croce near the Piazzale Roma bus station, and Bocon is in Campo Santa Margharita, Dorsoduro.albocondivino.itlogie88Villaggio Europa, GradoGrado is a sunny, sandy peninsula between Venice and Trieste. The best campsite is Villaggio Europa, which has its own stretch of beach, a water park, and chalets sleeping six from \u20ac62 a night.+39 0431 80877, villaggioeuropa.comlizbouI travelled the length of Italy on my Honda motorbike. Because I was on my own and wanted company in the evenings, each night I stayed in a youth hostel. This turned out to be a great idea and, besides having a wide variety of different people to chat with, I stayed in splendid buildings and ate authentic food (although not at all hostels, I should say). And of course, they're incredibly cheap. that Some can be tricky to find: I had no satnav so spent a lot of time asking for directions.hihostels.comjohnboy47", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Budget travel", "Self-catering", "Summer holidays", "Camping holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Cheap holidays in Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2013-05-01T22:10:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Angela Merkel, whose austerity-driven stewardship of the debt crisis in the eurozone sealed the fate of two centre-left leaders in Europe \u2013 Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and George Papandreou \u2013 wished Enrico Letta, the new boy on the European block, a \"truly lucky hand\". He will need it. Italy's latest prime minister went to Berlin on Tuesday with a heartfelt message: that Europe faced a crisis of legitimacy at the very moment when its citizens needed it the most.No one looking at the latest opinion polls could disagree with him, but the German chancellor stuck to the script that budget cuts and growth were not contradictory. She should heed Letta's plea to give Italy room for manoeuvre to deliver growth. By this he could mean a relaxation of the deficit targets, which are just under the 3% of GDP ceiling. Size alone dictates respect. Being the eurozone's third-largest economy, Italy has got more chance of being listened to than Greece or Spain. Mr Letta's task domestically is not an easy one. He heads what the Germans would call a grand coalition, dominated by Italy's two biggest mainstream parties \u2013 Pier Luigi Bersani's Democratic party (PD) and Silvio Berlusconi's People of Freedom (PdL) \u2013 and Mario Monti's Civic Choice. Left and right do not exert equal pressure on a centre-left premier.If Mr Letta calculates he can make concessions on his own party's agenda, the same is not true about the compromises he will demand from the PdL. He knows that Mr Berlusconi, who is not in cabinet but exerts a big influence over it, will pull the plug on the government as soon as he knows he has the votes. Mr Letta should at least be well-informed of Mr Berlusconi's intentions. His uncle, Gianni Letta, is one of Mr Berlusconi's trusted advisers.Mr Letta has started well \u2013 in Mr Berlusconi's eyes \u2013 by suspending a planned increase in sales tax and a housing levy. But unlike Mr Berlusconi, he knows that growth will not be stimulated by tax cuts alone. And so he has to find other means, while filling a budget hole between \u20ac10bn and \u20ac12bn. Both left and right have a vested interest in blocking reforms, such as streamlining Italy's parliamentary model and abolishing the provinces. Much depends on how disciplined his own party is. Splits in it could feed Mr Berlusconi's own calculations on when next to strike.Mr Letta starts with some advantages. Borrowing costs have fallen to their lowest levels in three years. But France, the second stop on his European tour, is an object lesson in what to avoid. Mr Hollande is suffering now from the wildly optimistic growth assumptions he made before his election. Mr Letta will have to have his feet more firmly on the ground. The danger remains that, through no fault of his own, his government is short-lived.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Enrico Letta"], "title": "Italy: new kid on the block | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:32:50Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a package of measures it hopes will help bring down high levels of youth unemployment as the eurozone's third-largest economy continues to limp through a two-year recession.Faced with 42% of 15- to 24-year-olds out of work, the prime minister, Enrico Letta, identified the \"plague\" of youth joblessness as one of his coalition government's priorities. At a press conference on Wednesday he said he hoped measures including tax breaks for employers who hire certain under-30s on permanent contracts would boost young people's prospects.At the same time the package was aimed at easing the employment of people on temporary contracts, and stimulating training, apprentice and internship schemes. Letta said the majority of the \u20ac1.5bn effort \u2013\u00a0a\u00a0mixture of national and European structural funds \u2013 would be particularly focused on the south of Italy, where general unemployment is higher than the national average and joblessness among the young is particularly severe, at over 35%, according to Istat, the national statistics agency.He said the government estimated that around 200,000 young people would be helped into work over the next 18 months as a result of the measures, adding that they allowed him to go to a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels on Friday with \"solid arguments to fight a great battle, a European battle\".", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Business"], "title": "Italy agrees measures to tackle youth unemployment"},{"date": "2013-06-03T06:08:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "For the design-conscious on a budget, Campeggio Fusina, created in 1959 by the modernist Venetian architect Carlo Scarpa, offers inexpensive camping with a view across the lagoon to Venice (prices from \u20ac8.50 for a tent to \u20ac92 for a static caravan). The channel just offshore treats you to a close-up of passing ships en route to Porto Marghera, Venice's industrial secret.+ 39\u00a0041 5470055, camping-fusina.comkesselPositanoRifugio Degli Dei is a family-run farmhouse that you'll only find after walking up 100 or so very steep steps \u2013 the view, the warm welcome, the beautiful apartments and the spectacular food (freshly made by mamma from produce grown on site) is worth the exhausting climb. +39\u00a0339 839 0809, rifugiodeglidei.it. Rooms from \u20ac40 B&B per personprateekbuchBussana VecchiaThis is a sun-drenched hilltop village that was devastated by an earthquake in 1887 and brought back to life by a colony of artists who settled here in the 1960s. It has a unique hippy charm, stunning architecture and artist ateliers. Go there now, and you may be able to check out \u2013 for free, however donations are appreciated \u2013 one of the largest model railways in Italy, with hundreds of metres of tracks winding through tiny stations and mountains. To find it ask locals for the plastico ferroviario, or follow the signs if you are lucky enough to find them. There are also a couple of B&Bs in town, with rooms starting from \u20ac70. Drive down the hill and you will find some of the best beaches in the area, some of them with free access.robbielondonSerramonacescaTry self-catering with a difference in the beautiful, unspoilt Abruzzo. Bring your own tent or rent one of the gorgeous resident canvas bell tents, sleep in \"Rosemary\", the retired VW camper van, or select one of the in-house self-catering options. Climb, walk, bike, swim or chill amid the spectacular foothills of the Apennines, with the Adriatic's undiscovered beaches less than 40\u00a0minutes away. Serramonesca is two hours from Rome and easily accessible by rail.+39 333 4636075, kokopellicamping.co.uk, camping from \u20ac20 a night for twojillapCuneoLa Randoulina is a great slow-food restaurant in the Valle Staura, west of Cuneo. There is no menu, or prices, but they ask your preference of fish or meat, or if you're vegetarian; then they start bringing food to your table. Delicious local food: boar pat\u00e9, steak tartar, aubergine tart, fish vol au vent just for your starters. The menu changes according to the season. The bill came to \u20ac40 for one including a great bottle of Nebbiolo d'Alba. Not dirt cheap, but very good value for seven or eight courses.larandoulina.comrelatorAl Bocon di Vino and Bacareto da LeleThese must be the cheapest drinks in Venice. Wine sells for 80\u00a2 a glass at the Bacareto, and you can have a glass of prosecco for \u20ac2 at the Bocon. You buy at the bar and there is limited seating at the Bocon, while at the Bacareto you simply sit on the stepped area at the edge of the canal. Bacareto is in Campo dei Tolentini in Santa Croce near the Piazzale Roma bus station, and Bocon is in Campo Santa Margharita, Dorsoduro.albocondivino.itlogie88Villaggio Europa, GradoGrado is a sunny, sandy peninsula between Venice and Trieste. The best campsite is Villaggio Europa, which has its own stretch of beach, a water park, and chalets sleeping six from \u20ac62 a night.+39 0431 80877, villaggioeuropa.comlizbouI travelled the length of Italy on my Honda motorbike. Because I was on my own and wanted company in the evenings, each night I stayed in a youth hostel. This turned out to be a great idea and, besides having a wide variety of different people to chat with, I stayed in splendid buildings and ate authentic food (although not at all hostels, I should say). And of course, they're incredibly cheap. that Some can be tricky to find: I had no satnav so spent a lot of time asking for directions.hihostels.comjohnboy47", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Budget travel", "Self-catering", "Summer holidays", "Camping holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Cheap holidays in Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2013-05-01T22:10:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Angela Merkel, whose austerity-driven stewardship of the debt crisis in the eurozone sealed the fate of two centre-left leaders in Europe \u2013 Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and George Papandreou \u2013 wished Enrico Letta, the new boy on the European block, a \"truly lucky hand\". He will need it. Italy's latest prime minister went to Berlin on Tuesday with a heartfelt message: that Europe faced a crisis of legitimacy at the very moment when its citizens needed it the most.No one looking at the latest opinion polls could disagree with him, but the German chancellor stuck to the script that budget cuts and growth were not contradictory. She should heed Letta's plea to give Italy room for manoeuvre to deliver growth. By this he could mean a relaxation of the deficit targets, which are just under the 3% of GDP ceiling. Size alone dictates respect. Being the eurozone's third-largest economy, Italy has got more chance of being listened to than Greece or Spain. Mr Letta's task domestically is not an easy one. He heads what the Germans would call a grand coalition, dominated by Italy's two biggest mainstream parties \u2013 Pier Luigi Bersani's Democratic party (PD) and Silvio Berlusconi's People of Freedom (PdL) \u2013 and Mario Monti's Civic Choice. Left and right do not exert equal pressure on a centre-left premier.If Mr Letta calculates he can make concessions on his own party's agenda, the same is not true about the compromises he will demand from the PdL. He knows that Mr Berlusconi, who is not in cabinet but exerts a big influence over it, will pull the plug on the government as soon as he knows he has the votes. Mr Letta should at least be well-informed of Mr Berlusconi's intentions. His uncle, Gianni Letta, is one of Mr Berlusconi's trusted advisers.Mr Letta has started well \u2013 in Mr Berlusconi's eyes \u2013 by suspending a planned increase in sales tax and a housing levy. But unlike Mr Berlusconi, he knows that growth will not be stimulated by tax cuts alone. And so he has to find other means, while filling a budget hole between \u20ac10bn and \u20ac12bn. Both left and right have a vested interest in blocking reforms, such as streamlining Italy's parliamentary model and abolishing the provinces. Much depends on how disciplined his own party is. Splits in it could feed Mr Berlusconi's own calculations on when next to strike.Mr Letta starts with some advantages. Borrowing costs have fallen to their lowest levels in three years. But France, the second stop on his European tour, is an object lesson in what to avoid. Mr Hollande is suffering now from the wildly optimistic growth assumptions he made before his election. Mr Letta will have to have his feet more firmly on the ground. The danger remains that, through no fault of his own, his government is short-lived.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Enrico Letta"], "title": "Italy: new kid on the block | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-24T08:03:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "With a mini-iPad the centrepiece on his antique wooden desk, Matteo Renzi sits in the Palazzo Vecchio, apparently unfazed by the steely gaze of popes and rulers past. Ensconced in his office in Florence's 14th-century town hall, he is a man steeped in history but with his eye firmly on the road ahead. \"We want to restart Italy. We want Italy, which has an extraordinary, dizzying, astonishing past,\" he says, gesturing at the frescoed walls, \"to have a future also.\"For many Italians, Renzi is the man who should be in charge of that future \u2013 a young and energetic outsider from the centre-left who they believe might just be able to rescue the country from its dismal present. Poll after poll has him as Italy's most popular politician. But that support has not been echoed within his own Democratic party (PD), a significant portion of which regards him as an ideologically troubling upstart with an unseemly amount of ambition and a suspicious affinity with New Labour.On Tuesday, as Giorgio Napolitano, Italy's reluctantly re-elected 87-year-old president, carried out frantic negotiations aimed at producing an as yet elusive government, Renzi's name was the one which, though previously deemed by many unlikely, stood out among those touted for the premiership.The man widely believed to be the president's favourite is Giuliano Amato, the 74-year-old former prime minister, while Enrico Letta, vice-secretary of the PD, was also deemed a possibility. In an indication of his cross-spectrum appeal, Renzi was mentioned by elements not only of the PD but also Silvio Berlusconi's centre-right PdL. But in an indication, also, of the concern he raises in the camp of the three-times prime minister, Berlusconi was reported to have opposed the backing of a man he views as being his most formidable future opponent.It was in this climate of heightened speculation and uncertainty that the 38-year-old, who, in Italy's ageing political class, would make a startlingly and almost indecently young occupant of Palazzo Chigi, gave an interview to the Guardian and partner newspapers from France, Italy, Germany, Poland and Spain. Insisting he did not know what, if any, role he would play in the next government, he said the most important thing was that, after two months of stalemate, a \"government of common sense\" was formed \u2013 and fast.\"I have joked that if the Vatican had had the same electoral law as Italy, there would have been four cardinals saying: 'I am the pope. I won',\" he said, referring to the other election that has dominated the country this year. \"It was rather embarrassing that the elections took place on 24 and 25 February; in the Vatican the sede vacante started on 28 February. Italy still doesn't have government and the Catholic church \u2013 not a model of speed \u2013 has managed not only to get a new government [Pope Francis] but to profoundly change tone and approach.\"It is precisely this kind of profound change that Renzi \u2013 who is a practising Catholic as well as a zealous Fiorentina supporter and evangelical exponent of Twitter \u2013 says Italy needs. He wants to see the next government cut Italy's fiendishly complex bureaucracy, take urgent steps to reduce unemployment, particularly among the young, fight corruption and tax evasion, invest more in technology, improve childcare, promote a new culture of innovation and forge deeper European ties. He declares himself to be a proud believer in a \"United States of Europe\".He backed much of the budget rigour of Mario Monti's technocratic government, but warns that austerity on its own will do little to help Italy out of its long-term economic stagnation. \"For too many years, Italy spent badly and spent too much. So the call to put our accounts in order was right,\" he says. \"That said, the idea today of an austerity without reforms and without growth is very dangerous \u2026 Italy is going through a difficult period, but to think you can get out of this phase with just austerity is wrong.\"For many in the PD, Renzi's positioning is problematic. When he took on Pier Luigi Bersani in primaries last year to be the party's candidate at the February election, Massimo D'Alema, a former prime minister and party leader, remarked: \"If he wins, the Italian centre-left is finished.\" On that occasion, the \"scrapper\" \u2013 so-called because of his desire to boot out the old guard of Italian politics \u2013 did not win. But the landscape looks a little different now. Bersani \u2013 battered by weeks of failed talks to form a government and a fiasco at the presidential election which saw both his candidates shot down by party rebels \u2013 has resigned. Headlines herald \"schism\" for the deeply divided party.Renzi has never been one to toe the PD line: when he stood in primaries for mayor, it was to the profound irritation of party elders, who had told him to wait his turn. Unsurprisingly, then, he does not refrain from calling out his own party now on what he says was a \"badly played election campaign, all on the defensive, allowing Berlusconi his latest miraculous recovery\".Now, he adds, the PD must decide once and for all what it stands for and \u2013 although he does not say it, the subtext is clear \u2013 whether it will accept him as its new champion. The obvious draw is that, according to the polls, he is by far the most likely person to win an election \u2013 like Tony Blair, a \"milestone for the European left\" whom he quotes as lamenting Labour's old habit of losing. \"[He] is a role model because he wasn't scared of challenging his seniors. He became leader very young and turned a generation on to politics.\" He appeals to centrist and some centre-right voters. He refuses to devote his career to the demolition of Berlusconi, preferring dismissal to demonisation, and telling the former prime minister \"to his face\" that he would very much like to send him into retirement.On the subject of Beppe Grillo, the comedian turned political \"megaphone\" whose Five Star Movement (M5S) has rocked Italian politics to its core, Renzi is damning. The reasons so many voted for Grillo are \"understandable\", he says; indeed, the young Tuscan was calling for the country's \"old politics\" \u2013 and politicians \u2013 to be scrapped before M5S was founded. But there, he insists, the comparisons end: \"Italy outside the parliament is ready [for change],\" he says. But Italy \" cannot be left in the hands of demagogues like Beppe Grillo.\"Whether the country will ever be in Renzi's hands \u2013 this week, this year, this decade \u2013 remains unknown. But, sitting back in his chair in Palazzo Vecchio, he is at pains to say that time is on his side. \"In a year or two there will be fresh elections. I am 38 years old. I am a very lucky guy. I get to come to work here every morning and I should have to pay the entry fee,\" he says, laughing and fiddling with his iPad. \"I don't have ambition \u2026 to change position. I would like to change the country.\"Marco Bardazzi (La Stampa), Philippe Ridet (Le Monde), Pablo Ordaz (El Pais), Milada Jedrysik (Gazeta Wyborcza) and Andrea Bachstein (S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung) contributed to this interview. ", "tags": ["Italian elections 2013", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Matteo Renzi: 'we want to restart Italy'"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The collections of the European University Institute (EUI) library include resources both traditional (books, documents and journals on paper or in microform, about 850,000 items in all) and digital (435,000 ebooks, and 13,000 ejournals and serials accessible online). The collections reflect the international nature of the EUI and include library materials in 35 languages, with a clear predominance of English, the primary working language at the EUI.Founded by the member states of the European Community, the EUI opened in 1976. Today it offers doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in social sciences (economics, law, history and political science) and hosts a community of more than 1000 scholars from over 60 countries. We also house the historical archives of the European Union.Reference works moved off siteOver the past 10 years, the library has evolved profoundly: in this short period of time, the number of titles available online has equalled the total assets acquired by the library in the first 25 years of its existence. The reference room, once the most busy and animated, has gradually become quieter and consequently many of its reference works (as well as part of the print periodical collection) have been moved to off-site storage.PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and academic staff now access electronic resources from their workplaces or their homes \u2013 the EUI campus is spread over 14 sites across the hills of Florence. At the same time, scholarly access to the webpages of the library has grown dramatically, including to our subject research guides \u2013 specialised portals for the main disciplines of the EUI.Space of interdisciplinary exchangeNevertheless, the library continues to be the most popular place in the institute \u2013 in strong competition with the nearby EUI canteen. Thanks to improvements to workspaces, the frequency of internal and external users has even increased, and the use of the print monograph collection has not diminished. The library also acts as a place of social and interdisciplinary exchange, a very significant factor at an international institution whose mission includes being a forum for exchange and discussion of ideas and experiences in study and research.Like most academic (and non-academic) libraries, the EUI is facing its share of technological challenges. In the current transitional period, libraries are providing two parallel infrastructures, the traditional and the digital, both of which are essential for research purposes. To address these changes, especially in a time of crisis, we need to reduce the costs of traditional infrastructures and invest more in innovation, in order to sustain a comfortable and effective research and learning environment.Building library communitiesThis is not always easy because research libraries also have responsibilities to transmit our cultural heritage to future generations. The most reasonable solution would be to cooperate with other libraries and participants in knowledge exchange to reduce the maintenance costs of both print and electronic collections. From the beginning, the EUI library has been strongly committed to cooperation programmes, achieving good results in inter-library loan and electronic resource acquisition.In the coming years, technological development will allow us to collaborate more effectively at the national, European and global levels. We are actively involved in important international programmes in different domains, for example shared cataloguing (WorldCat), digital preservation (Lockss, Clockss, Portico), and open access (OpenAire, Nereus, Dart, Driver). The EUI has recently developed an institutional repository, Cadmus, which is ranked among the top 200 world repositories, and this despite having a limited number of professors and researchers compared with larger universities. Our programmes for the near future include the implementation of an open data service.The future of the library depends on many factors, not least those of an external character, notoriously difficult to control. In an increasingly globalised world, the international position and vision of the EUI, and the multicultural profile of its community, are our strengths, and represent important potential for further developments in innovative library services.Tommaso Giordano is deputy director of the library at the European University Institute, ItalyThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Infrastructure", "Student experience", "Academics", "Research", "Open access", "Higher education", "Research", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: European University Institute, Italy"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The collections of the European University Institute (EUI) library include resources both traditional (books, documents and journals on paper or in microform, about 850,000 items in all) and digital (435,000 ebooks, and 13,000 ejournals and serials accessible online). The collections reflect the international nature of the EUI and include library materials in 35 languages, with a clear predominance of English, the primary working language at the EUI.Founded by the member states of the European Community, the EUI opened in 1976. Today it offers doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in social sciences (economics, law, history and political science) and hosts a community of more than 1000 scholars from over 60 countries. We also house the historical archives of the European Union.Reference works moved off siteOver the past 10 years, the library has evolved profoundly: in this short period of time, the number of titles available online has equalled the total assets acquired by the library in the first 25 years of its existence. The reference room, once the most busy and animated, has gradually become quieter and consequently many of its reference works (as well as part of the print periodical collection) have been moved to off-site storage.PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and academic staff now access electronic resources from their workplaces or their homes \u2013 the EUI campus is spread over 14 sites across the hills of Florence. At the same time, scholarly access to the webpages of the library has grown dramatically, including to our subject research guides \u2013 specialised portals for the main disciplines of the EUI.Space of interdisciplinary exchangeNevertheless, the library continues to be the most popular place in the institute \u2013 in strong competition with the nearby EUI canteen. Thanks to improvements to workspaces, the frequency of internal and external users has even increased, and the use of the print monograph collection has not diminished. The library also acts as a place of social and interdisciplinary exchange, a very significant factor at an international institution whose mission includes being a forum for exchange and discussion of ideas and experiences in study and research.Like most academic (and non-academic) libraries, the EUI is facing its share of technological challenges. In the current transitional period, libraries are providing two parallel infrastructures, the traditional and the digital, both of which are essential for research purposes. To address these changes, especially in a time of crisis, we need to reduce the costs of traditional infrastructures and invest more in innovation, in order to sustain a comfortable and effective research and learning environment.Building library communitiesThis is not always easy because research libraries also have responsibilities to transmit our cultural heritage to future generations. The most reasonable solution would be to cooperate with other libraries and participants in knowledge exchange to reduce the maintenance costs of both print and electronic collections. From the beginning, the EUI library has been strongly committed to cooperation programmes, achieving good results in inter-library loan and electronic resource acquisition.In the coming years, technological development will allow us to collaborate more effectively at the national, European and global levels. We are actively involved in important international programmes in different domains, for example shared cataloguing (WorldCat), digital preservation (Lockss, Clockss, Portico), and open access (OpenAire, Nereus, Dart, Driver). The EUI has recently developed an institutional repository, Cadmus, which is ranked among the top 200 world repositories, and this despite having a limited number of professors and researchers compared with larger universities. Our programmes for the near future include the implementation of an open data service.The future of the library depends on many factors, not least those of an external character, notoriously difficult to control. In an increasingly globalised world, the international position and vision of the EUI, and the multicultural profile of its community, are our strengths, and represent important potential for further developments in innovative library services.Tommaso Giordano is deputy director of the library at the European University Institute, ItalyThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Infrastructure", "Student experience", "Academics", "Research", "Open access", "Higher education", "Research", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: European University Institute, Italy"},{"date": "2013-07-30T15:27:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The events of the last few weeks have proved, beyond doubt, that Italy has a serious problem with racism. Bananas have been thrown at C\u00e9cile Kyenge, Italy's first black government minister. A (female) councillor for the Northern League has said she should be raped. A Northern League senator has likened her to an orangutan. Last week the AC Milan footballer, Kevin Constant, walked off the pitch after a barrage of abuse, just as Kevin-Prince Boateng did earlier this year.The Northern League is, admittedly, a minority party, usually gaining only between five and 10% of the national vote. And other political parties have expressed solidarity with Kyenge. But anyone who has listened to Italian political debate, or worse, stood in an Italian football stadium, knows that Italy simply isn't a tolerant place. This is a country where a recent prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, thought it hilarious to joke that Obama had a decent suntan. The racism isn't restricted to right or left, old or young, rural or urban: it is noticeable everywhere.The reasons are pretty obvious. As Italians will constantly tell you, theirs is an incredibly provincial country. Campanilismo \u2013 the attachment to one's local belltower \u2013 is one of the reasons the place is so charming: people often stay put, they're rooted rather than rootless. All over the country, even in a tiny village, you'll see caput mundi graffitied on walls, suggesting that this sleepy place is considered the capital of the world. The downside is that outsiders are treated as aliens, if not enemies.Through the centuries Italy has been, not a colonial power, but a colony, a plaything of the superpowers. So with the exception of small parts of Somalia, no other country speaks Italian. Unlike France, Britain, Portugal or Spain, there's no large diaspora of Italian speakers who can immediately integrate into the \"mother country\", knowing already its literature and history. So the peninsula remains insular, an astonishingly monocultural, monoconfessional place.There are other reasons for the racism: the legacy of fascism and the continuing adulation of Benito Mussolini; the tangible insecurity, even sense of inferiority, of many Italians; widespread economic misery for at least the last decade; and a political class that is absurdly ignorant. But perhaps the most interesting explanation for racism comes from an Italian mate of mine who's an armchair anthropologist. He maintains that in a country that is famously lawless, in which rules are often wilfully ignored, everyone is oddly very conformist in other ways: all wearing the same fashionable colour, or eating the same food at the same festivals. Italy simply isn't a country of eccentricity, or a place where difference or diversity are accepted, let alone cherished. I once tried to experiment by putting an unorthodox topping on my pizza and was harangued by irate mates as if I'd committed a terrible crime.The conundrum of Italian racism is that Italy, ever a country of contradictions, is also a place of remarkable generosity and hospitality. I know it's easy for a white Englishman to say that, but centuries of visitors have noted Italians' esterofilia, their love of all things foreign. The dignity and intelligence of Kyenge in the face of recent attacks may yet remind Italians that they have a reputation for loving, rather than fearing, those from afar.Tobias Jones's Italian novel, Death of a Showgirl, has just been published by Faber", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "The far right", "Europe", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Why is Italy still so racist?"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The collections of the European University Institute (EUI) library include resources both traditional (books, documents and journals on paper or in microform, about 850,000 items in all) and digital (435,000 ebooks, and 13,000 ejournals and serials accessible online). The collections reflect the international nature of the EUI and include library materials in 35 languages, with a clear predominance of English, the primary working language at the EUI.Founded by the member states of the European Community, the EUI opened in 1976. Today it offers doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in social sciences (economics, law, history and political science) and hosts a community of more than 1000 scholars from over 60 countries. We also house the historical archives of the European Union.Reference works moved off siteOver the past 10 years, the library has evolved profoundly: in this short period of time, the number of titles available online has equalled the total assets acquired by the library in the first 25 years of its existence. The reference room, once the most busy and animated, has gradually become quieter and consequently many of its reference works (as well as part of the print periodical collection) have been moved to off-site storage.PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and academic staff now access electronic resources from their workplaces or their homes \u2013 the EUI campus is spread over 14 sites across the hills of Florence. At the same time, scholarly access to the webpages of the library has grown dramatically, including to our subject research guides \u2013 specialised portals for the main disciplines of the EUI.Space of interdisciplinary exchangeNevertheless, the library continues to be the most popular place in the institute \u2013 in strong competition with the nearby EUI canteen. Thanks to improvements to workspaces, the frequency of internal and external users has even increased, and the use of the print monograph collection has not diminished. The library also acts as a place of social and interdisciplinary exchange, a very significant factor at an international institution whose mission includes being a forum for exchange and discussion of ideas and experiences in study and research.Like most academic (and non-academic) libraries, the EUI is facing its share of technological challenges. In the current transitional period, libraries are providing two parallel infrastructures, the traditional and the digital, both of which are essential for research purposes. To address these changes, especially in a time of crisis, we need to reduce the costs of traditional infrastructures and invest more in innovation, in order to sustain a comfortable and effective research and learning environment.Building library communitiesThis is not always easy because research libraries also have responsibilities to transmit our cultural heritage to future generations. The most reasonable solution would be to cooperate with other libraries and participants in knowledge exchange to reduce the maintenance costs of both print and electronic collections. From the beginning, the EUI library has been strongly committed to cooperation programmes, achieving good results in inter-library loan and electronic resource acquisition.In the coming years, technological development will allow us to collaborate more effectively at the national, European and global levels. We are actively involved in important international programmes in different domains, for example shared cataloguing (WorldCat), digital preservation (Lockss, Clockss, Portico), and open access (OpenAire, Nereus, Dart, Driver). The EUI has recently developed an institutional repository, Cadmus, which is ranked among the top 200 world repositories, and this despite having a limited number of professors and researchers compared with larger universities. Our programmes for the near future include the implementation of an open data service.The future of the library depends on many factors, not least those of an external character, notoriously difficult to control. In an increasingly globalised world, the international position and vision of the EUI, and the multicultural profile of its community, are our strengths, and represent important potential for further developments in innovative library services.Tommaso Giordano is deputy director of the library at the European University Institute, ItalyThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Infrastructure", "Student experience", "Academics", "Research", "Open access", "Higher education", "Research", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: European University Institute, Italy"},{"date": "2013-07-30T15:27:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The events of the last few weeks have proved, beyond doubt, that Italy has a serious problem with racism. Bananas have been thrown at C\u00e9cile Kyenge, Italy's first black government minister. A (female) councillor for the Northern League has said she should be raped. A Northern League senator has likened her to an orangutan. Last week the AC Milan footballer, Kevin Constant, walked off the pitch after a barrage of abuse, just as Kevin-Prince Boateng did earlier this year.The Northern League is, admittedly, a minority party, usually gaining only between five and 10% of the national vote. And other political parties have expressed solidarity with Kyenge. But anyone who has listened to Italian political debate, or worse, stood in an Italian football stadium, knows that Italy simply isn't a tolerant place. This is a country where a recent prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, thought it hilarious to joke that Obama had a decent suntan. The racism isn't restricted to right or left, old or young, rural or urban: it is noticeable everywhere.The reasons are pretty obvious. As Italians will constantly tell you, theirs is an incredibly provincial country. Campanilismo \u2013 the attachment to one's local belltower \u2013 is one of the reasons the place is so charming: people often stay put, they're rooted rather than rootless. All over the country, even in a tiny village, you'll see caput mundi graffitied on walls, suggesting that this sleepy place is considered the capital of the world. The downside is that outsiders are treated as aliens, if not enemies.Through the centuries Italy has been, not a colonial power, but a colony, a plaything of the superpowers. So with the exception of small parts of Somalia, no other country speaks Italian. Unlike France, Britain, Portugal or Spain, there's no large diaspora of Italian speakers who can immediately integrate into the \"mother country\", knowing already its literature and history. So the peninsula remains insular, an astonishingly monocultural, monoconfessional place.There are other reasons for the racism: the legacy of fascism and the continuing adulation of Benito Mussolini; the tangible insecurity, even sense of inferiority, of many Italians; widespread economic misery for at least the last decade; and a political class that is absurdly ignorant. But perhaps the most interesting explanation for racism comes from an Italian mate of mine who's an armchair anthropologist. He maintains that in a country that is famously lawless, in which rules are often wilfully ignored, everyone is oddly very conformist in other ways: all wearing the same fashionable colour, or eating the same food at the same festivals. Italy simply isn't a country of eccentricity, or a place where difference or diversity are accepted, let alone cherished. I once tried to experiment by putting an unorthodox topping on my pizza and was harangued by irate mates as if I'd committed a terrible crime.The conundrum of Italian racism is that Italy, ever a country of contradictions, is also a place of remarkable generosity and hospitality. I know it's easy for a white Englishman to say that, but centuries of visitors have noted Italians' esterofilia, their love of all things foreign. The dignity and intelligence of Kyenge in the face of recent attacks may yet remind Italians that they have a reputation for loving, rather than fearing, those from afar.Tobias Jones's Italian novel, Death of a Showgirl, has just been published by Faber", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "The far right", "Europe", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Why is Italy still so racist?"},{"date": "2013-09-28T21:41:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "All five ministers from Silvio Berlusconi's centre-right party said on Saturday night they were resigning from Italy's grand coalition government in a dramatic move that plunged the country back into political uncertainty and raised the possibility of fresh elections.Just days before a senate committee is expected to vote for him to be stripped of his seat following a conviction for tax fraud, Berlusconi said he was withdrawing his support from Enrico Letta's government over an increase in sales tax.Letta, who has fought to hold the coalition together for five months of tensions and threats, called the move \"mad and irresponsible\" and said it was based on a \"blatant lie\". The centre-left prime minister will on Sunday meet the president, Giorgio Napolitano, who is known to be desperate to avoid any return to the polls.Talks will begin on whether an alternative parliamentary majority can be found to support a new Letta cabinet. He had called last week for the government to be put to a confidence vote, and, although it was unclear whether that would go ahead, the prime minister said on Saturday night: \"Everyone will assume their own responsibilities before the country in parliament.\"Italy, the eurozone's third largest economy, is in its longest recession in decades and can ill afford more instability and rudderless leadership. \"Measures we were working on now risk being set back,\" the labour minister, Enrico Giovannini, told Italian television. \"On Monday our borrowing costs are going to rise by many points.\"Citing Italy's continuing economic troubles, Beppe Grillo, the figurehead of the opposition anti-establishment Five Star Movement, called for fresh elections. \"We need to go to the polls to win and save Italy,\" he wrote on his blog. \"It's the last train.\"But Stefano Fassina, the deputy economy minister and Democratic party (PD) MP, insisted the best way forward would be to find a new majority to carry out urgently needed reforms. \"We won't go to elections because we will find a solution in parliament. I am sure that in parliament there is a majority that could avoid that,\" he was quoted by the Ansa news agency as saying.Berlusconi's move \u2013 made on the eve of his 77th birthday \u2013 surprised many analysts. Amid threats throughout the summer, some had suspected Berlusconi of bluffing in order to win last-minute concessions on his legal problems. On Friday, a senate committee is due to meet to vote on whether he should be expelled from the upper house of parliament, and by mid-October he has to decide whether to carry out his tax fraud sentence under house arrest or in community service. The committee vote, which is expected to go against him, would still have to be ratified in a full senate vote. The imminence of these problems appeared to have prompted the billionaire media magnate to side with party hawks, rather than those PdL members who over the summer had been urging a more conciliatory stance within the coalition.Amid questions over whether the party would back Berlusconi to the hilt, there were hints on Saturday night that the resignations had not met with the approval of all in the party. \"I think that a decision of such deep political importance should have required an in-depth discussion,\" said Fabrizio Cicchitto, one PdL MP.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy plunged into chaos as Berlusconi withdraws ministers from coalition"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The collections of the European University Institute (EUI) library include resources both traditional (books, documents and journals on paper or in microform, about 850,000 items in all) and digital (435,000 ebooks, and 13,000 ejournals and serials accessible online). The collections reflect the international nature of the EUI and include library materials in 35 languages, with a clear predominance of English, the primary working language at the EUI.Founded by the member states of the European Community, the EUI opened in 1976. Today it offers doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in social sciences (economics, law, history and political science) and hosts a community of more than 1000 scholars from over 60 countries. We also house the historical archives of the European Union.Reference works moved off siteOver the past 10 years, the library has evolved profoundly: in this short period of time, the number of titles available online has equalled the total assets acquired by the library in the first 25 years of its existence. The reference room, once the most busy and animated, has gradually become quieter and consequently many of its reference works (as well as part of the print periodical collection) have been moved to off-site storage.PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and academic staff now access electronic resources from their workplaces or their homes \u2013 the EUI campus is spread over 14 sites across the hills of Florence. At the same time, scholarly access to the webpages of the library has grown dramatically, including to our subject research guides \u2013 specialised portals for the main disciplines of the EUI.Space of interdisciplinary exchangeNevertheless, the library continues to be the most popular place in the institute \u2013 in strong competition with the nearby EUI canteen. Thanks to improvements to workspaces, the frequency of internal and external users has even increased, and the use of the print monograph collection has not diminished. The library also acts as a place of social and interdisciplinary exchange, a very significant factor at an international institution whose mission includes being a forum for exchange and discussion of ideas and experiences in study and research.Like most academic (and non-academic) libraries, the EUI is facing its share of technological challenges. In the current transitional period, libraries are providing two parallel infrastructures, the traditional and the digital, both of which are essential for research purposes. To address these changes, especially in a time of crisis, we need to reduce the costs of traditional infrastructures and invest more in innovation, in order to sustain a comfortable and effective research and learning environment.Building library communitiesThis is not always easy because research libraries also have responsibilities to transmit our cultural heritage to future generations. The most reasonable solution would be to cooperate with other libraries and participants in knowledge exchange to reduce the maintenance costs of both print and electronic collections. From the beginning, the EUI library has been strongly committed to cooperation programmes, achieving good results in inter-library loan and electronic resource acquisition.In the coming years, technological development will allow us to collaborate more effectively at the national, European and global levels. We are actively involved in important international programmes in different domains, for example shared cataloguing (WorldCat), digital preservation (Lockss, Clockss, Portico), and open access (OpenAire, Nereus, Dart, Driver). The EUI has recently developed an institutional repository, Cadmus, which is ranked among the top 200 world repositories, and this despite having a limited number of professors and researchers compared with larger universities. Our programmes for the near future include the implementation of an open data service.The future of the library depends on many factors, not least those of an external character, notoriously difficult to control. In an increasingly globalised world, the international position and vision of the EUI, and the multicultural profile of its community, are our strengths, and represent important potential for further developments in innovative library services.Tommaso Giordano is deputy director of the library at the European University Institute, ItalyThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Infrastructure", "Student experience", "Academics", "Research", "Open access", "Higher education", "Research", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: European University Institute, Italy"},{"date": "2013-07-30T15:27:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The events of the last few weeks have proved, beyond doubt, that Italy has a serious problem with racism. Bananas have been thrown at C\u00e9cile Kyenge, Italy's first black government minister. A (female) councillor for the Northern League has said she should be raped. A Northern League senator has likened her to an orangutan. Last week the AC Milan footballer, Kevin Constant, walked off the pitch after a barrage of abuse, just as Kevin-Prince Boateng did earlier this year.The Northern League is, admittedly, a minority party, usually gaining only between five and 10% of the national vote. And other political parties have expressed solidarity with Kyenge. But anyone who has listened to Italian political debate, or worse, stood in an Italian football stadium, knows that Italy simply isn't a tolerant place. This is a country where a recent prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, thought it hilarious to joke that Obama had a decent suntan. The racism isn't restricted to right or left, old or young, rural or urban: it is noticeable everywhere.The reasons are pretty obvious. As Italians will constantly tell you, theirs is an incredibly provincial country. Campanilismo \u2013 the attachment to one's local belltower \u2013 is one of the reasons the place is so charming: people often stay put, they're rooted rather than rootless. All over the country, even in a tiny village, you'll see caput mundi graffitied on walls, suggesting that this sleepy place is considered the capital of the world. The downside is that outsiders are treated as aliens, if not enemies.Through the centuries Italy has been, not a colonial power, but a colony, a plaything of the superpowers. So with the exception of small parts of Somalia, no other country speaks Italian. Unlike France, Britain, Portugal or Spain, there's no large diaspora of Italian speakers who can immediately integrate into the \"mother country\", knowing already its literature and history. So the peninsula remains insular, an astonishingly monocultural, monoconfessional place.There are other reasons for the racism: the legacy of fascism and the continuing adulation of Benito Mussolini; the tangible insecurity, even sense of inferiority, of many Italians; widespread economic misery for at least the last decade; and a political class that is absurdly ignorant. But perhaps the most interesting explanation for racism comes from an Italian mate of mine who's an armchair anthropologist. He maintains that in a country that is famously lawless, in which rules are often wilfully ignored, everyone is oddly very conformist in other ways: all wearing the same fashionable colour, or eating the same food at the same festivals. Italy simply isn't a country of eccentricity, or a place where difference or diversity are accepted, let alone cherished. I once tried to experiment by putting an unorthodox topping on my pizza and was harangued by irate mates as if I'd committed a terrible crime.The conundrum of Italian racism is that Italy, ever a country of contradictions, is also a place of remarkable generosity and hospitality. I know it's easy for a white Englishman to say that, but centuries of visitors have noted Italians' esterofilia, their love of all things foreign. The dignity and intelligence of Kyenge in the face of recent attacks may yet remind Italians that they have a reputation for loving, rather than fearing, those from afar.Tobias Jones's Italian novel, Death of a Showgirl, has just been published by Faber", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "The far right", "Europe", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Why is Italy still so racist?"},{"date": "2013-09-28T21:41:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "All five ministers from Silvio Berlusconi's centre-right party said on Saturday night they were resigning from Italy's grand coalition government in a dramatic move that plunged the country back into political uncertainty and raised the possibility of fresh elections.Just days before a senate committee is expected to vote for him to be stripped of his seat following a conviction for tax fraud, Berlusconi said he was withdrawing his support from Enrico Letta's government over an increase in sales tax.Letta, who has fought to hold the coalition together for five months of tensions and threats, called the move \"mad and irresponsible\" and said it was based on a \"blatant lie\". The centre-left prime minister will on Sunday meet the president, Giorgio Napolitano, who is known to be desperate to avoid any return to the polls.Talks will begin on whether an alternative parliamentary majority can be found to support a new Letta cabinet. He had called last week for the government to be put to a confidence vote, and, although it was unclear whether that would go ahead, the prime minister said on Saturday night: \"Everyone will assume their own responsibilities before the country in parliament.\"Italy, the eurozone's third largest economy, is in its longest recession in decades and can ill afford more instability and rudderless leadership. \"Measures we were working on now risk being set back,\" the labour minister, Enrico Giovannini, told Italian television. \"On Monday our borrowing costs are going to rise by many points.\"Citing Italy's continuing economic troubles, Beppe Grillo, the figurehead of the opposition anti-establishment Five Star Movement, called for fresh elections. \"We need to go to the polls to win and save Italy,\" he wrote on his blog. \"It's the last train.\"But Stefano Fassina, the deputy economy minister and Democratic party (PD) MP, insisted the best way forward would be to find a new majority to carry out urgently needed reforms. \"We won't go to elections because we will find a solution in parliament. I am sure that in parliament there is a majority that could avoid that,\" he was quoted by the Ansa news agency as saying.Berlusconi's move \u2013 made on the eve of his 77th birthday \u2013 surprised many analysts. Amid threats throughout the summer, some had suspected Berlusconi of bluffing in order to win last-minute concessions on his legal problems. On Friday, a senate committee is due to meet to vote on whether he should be expelled from the upper house of parliament, and by mid-October he has to decide whether to carry out his tax fraud sentence under house arrest or in community service. The committee vote, which is expected to go against him, would still have to be ratified in a full senate vote. The imminence of these problems appeared to have prompted the billionaire media magnate to side with party hawks, rather than those PdL members who over the summer had been urging a more conciliatory stance within the coalition.Amid questions over whether the party would back Berlusconi to the hilt, there were hints on Saturday night that the resignations had not met with the approval of all in the party. \"I think that a decision of such deep political importance should have required an in-depth discussion,\" said Fabrizio Cicchitto, one PdL MP.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy plunged into chaos as Berlusconi withdraws ministers from coalition"},{"date": "2013-09-27T09:39:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Name: The Interior Co & Feathers Of ItalyCity: WhitchurchWebsite: www.theinteriorco.co.ukKerrie cleverly used her experience as an advertising manager 14 years ago to get her work, company and products into national interior magazines. Her work as an interior designer was featured in the June edition of Ideal Home and in May 2012's Country Homes and Interiors magazine. The Sunday Times has just done a write-up on her renovating a garage and turning it into a cottage. Ideal Home, Your Style and Your Home magazine featured her work and products in 2012. And House Beautiful featured The Interior Co in May this year. 25 Beautiful Homes' September edition published four pages on her as an interior designer and artist.She has gained a customer base of over 1,445 people by showcasing her products at 20 shows around the UK each year. She has also designed jewellery, clothing, scarves, wraps and leather goods, as well as introduced carefully selected Italian clothing on to the website last year. As a result, it is going very well in the UK, Ireland, Scotland, Europe, Canada and the USA.Recently she turned her newly acquired marketing skills in online social media to find Pinterest, where she pins over 90 products of her website. Everyday she has orders from all over the globe for her interior and clothing products and now has 38 subscribers to her newsletter in the USA who buy on a regular basis.She is now making healthy profits, and predicts turnover will double in 2013.Kerrie Griffin-Rogers is the creative director of The Interior Co & Feathers Of ItalyFind out how you can enter our Small Business Showcase here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Marketing and PR excellence: The Interior Co & Feathers Of Italy"},{"date": "2013-09-29T22:01:28Z", "country": "italy", "content": "What goes on in Silvio Berlusconi's mind is a mystery even to Italy's seasoned analysts. It was, above all, in his interests for his party to stay in the fragile coalition government. With the vote coming up in a senate committee on whether Mr Berlusconi should retain his seat in the upper house of parliament, why infuriate President Giorgio Napolitano, who yesterday vowed he would only dissolve parliament as a last resort? Why pull his five ministers out of government, demanding elections \"as soon as possible\" on Saturday night, only to backtrack on Sunday morning when he saw how much hostility there was to the idea in his own party? After a full night's sleep (the first, he claimed, in 59 nights since his criminal conviction for tax fraud), he decided his party could support the 2014 budget, if it was \"really useful to Italy\".What is patently unhelpful is the continued presence of this man in Italian politics. At the age of 77, he may take some perverse delight in his power to hold coalition governments hostage. But when you have a man who is incapable of separating his fate \u2013 his mounting legal problems, mood swings and gambler's habits \u2013 from his country's fate, you have a recipe for disaster. The eurozone's third-biggest economy is struggling to emerge from a two-year recession, a \u20ac2tn public debt and youth unemployment of 40%. If the yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds does indeed widen significantly when the markets open today, Mr Berlusconi is playing with fire.The pretext for his latest tantrum was a government decision to proceed with a one percentage point rise in sales tax from 1 October. The centre-left prime minister Enrico Letta, whose uncle Gianni is a Berlusconi confidant and was supposed to act as a back channel, rightly denounced the decision to break the coalition as mad and irresponsible. The key question now is how many senators in the upper house agree with him. There are three potential groups from which the prime minster can look for support: disgruntled members of Mr Berlusconi's own party (three of the five ministers who said they would resign did not agree with the decision); defectors from Beppe Grillo's anti-establishment Five Star Movement (there could be as many as 10 of these); and four people recently nominated by the president as senators-for-life. While Mr Letta's centre-left party has a majority in the lower house, both Mr Berlusconi and Mr Grillo hold a blocking majority in the senate.If Mr Berlusconi succeeds in bringing down\u00a0the government, it is doubtful that he himself will ever be able to run for office. It is now surely up to senators to show the responsibility that this political gambler lacks. Mr Letta's address to parliament tomorrow will be one to watch.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy: on the brink, once again | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The collections of the European University Institute (EUI) library include resources both traditional (books, documents and journals on paper or in microform, about 850,000 items in all) and digital (435,000 ebooks, and 13,000 ejournals and serials accessible online). The collections reflect the international nature of the EUI and include library materials in 35 languages, with a clear predominance of English, the primary working language at the EUI.Founded by the member states of the European Community, the EUI opened in 1976. Today it offers doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in social sciences (economics, law, history and political science) and hosts a community of more than 1000 scholars from over 60 countries. We also house the historical archives of the European Union.Reference works moved off siteOver the past 10 years, the library has evolved profoundly: in this short period of time, the number of titles available online has equalled the total assets acquired by the library in the first 25 years of its existence. The reference room, once the most busy and animated, has gradually become quieter and consequently many of its reference works (as well as part of the print periodical collection) have been moved to off-site storage.PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and academic staff now access electronic resources from their workplaces or their homes \u2013 the EUI campus is spread over 14 sites across the hills of Florence. At the same time, scholarly access to the webpages of the library has grown dramatically, including to our subject research guides \u2013 specialised portals for the main disciplines of the EUI.Space of interdisciplinary exchangeNevertheless, the library continues to be the most popular place in the institute \u2013 in strong competition with the nearby EUI canteen. Thanks to improvements to workspaces, the frequency of internal and external users has even increased, and the use of the print monograph collection has not diminished. The library also acts as a place of social and interdisciplinary exchange, a very significant factor at an international institution whose mission includes being a forum for exchange and discussion of ideas and experiences in study and research.Like most academic (and non-academic) libraries, the EUI is facing its share of technological challenges. In the current transitional period, libraries are providing two parallel infrastructures, the traditional and the digital, both of which are essential for research purposes. To address these changes, especially in a time of crisis, we need to reduce the costs of traditional infrastructures and invest more in innovation, in order to sustain a comfortable and effective research and learning environment.Building library communitiesThis is not always easy because research libraries also have responsibilities to transmit our cultural heritage to future generations. The most reasonable solution would be to cooperate with other libraries and participants in knowledge exchange to reduce the maintenance costs of both print and electronic collections. From the beginning, the EUI library has been strongly committed to cooperation programmes, achieving good results in inter-library loan and electronic resource acquisition.In the coming years, technological development will allow us to collaborate more effectively at the national, European and global levels. We are actively involved in important international programmes in different domains, for example shared cataloguing (WorldCat), digital preservation (Lockss, Clockss, Portico), and open access (OpenAire, Nereus, Dart, Driver). The EUI has recently developed an institutional repository, Cadmus, which is ranked among the top 200 world repositories, and this despite having a limited number of professors and researchers compared with larger universities. Our programmes for the near future include the implementation of an open data service.The future of the library depends on many factors, not least those of an external character, notoriously difficult to control. In an increasingly globalised world, the international position and vision of the EUI, and the multicultural profile of its community, are our strengths, and represent important potential for further developments in innovative library services.Tommaso Giordano is deputy director of the library at the European University Institute, ItalyThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Infrastructure", "Student experience", "Academics", "Research", "Open access", "Higher education", "Research", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: European University Institute, Italy"},{"date": "2013-07-30T15:27:41Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The events of the last few weeks have proved, beyond doubt, that Italy has a serious problem with racism. Bananas have been thrown at C\u00e9cile Kyenge, Italy's first black government minister. A (female) councillor for the Northern League has said she should be raped. A Northern League senator has likened her to an orangutan. Last week the AC Milan footballer, Kevin Constant, walked off the pitch after a barrage of abuse, just as Kevin-Prince Boateng did earlier this year.The Northern League is, admittedly, a minority party, usually gaining only between five and 10% of the national vote. And other political parties have expressed solidarity with Kyenge. But anyone who has listened to Italian political debate, or worse, stood in an Italian football stadium, knows that Italy simply isn't a tolerant place. This is a country where a recent prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, thought it hilarious to joke that Obama had a decent suntan. The racism isn't restricted to right or left, old or young, rural or urban: it is noticeable everywhere.The reasons are pretty obvious. As Italians will constantly tell you, theirs is an incredibly provincial country. Campanilismo \u2013 the attachment to one's local belltower \u2013 is one of the reasons the place is so charming: people often stay put, they're rooted rather than rootless. All over the country, even in a tiny village, you'll see caput mundi graffitied on walls, suggesting that this sleepy place is considered the capital of the world. The downside is that outsiders are treated as aliens, if not enemies.Through the centuries Italy has been, not a colonial power, but a colony, a plaything of the superpowers. So with the exception of small parts of Somalia, no other country speaks Italian. Unlike France, Britain, Portugal or Spain, there's no large diaspora of Italian speakers who can immediately integrate into the \"mother country\", knowing already its literature and history. So the peninsula remains insular, an astonishingly monocultural, monoconfessional place.There are other reasons for the racism: the legacy of fascism and the continuing adulation of Benito Mussolini; the tangible insecurity, even sense of inferiority, of many Italians; widespread economic misery for at least the last decade; and a political class that is absurdly ignorant. But perhaps the most interesting explanation for racism comes from an Italian mate of mine who's an armchair anthropologist. He maintains that in a country that is famously lawless, in which rules are often wilfully ignored, everyone is oddly very conformist in other ways: all wearing the same fashionable colour, or eating the same food at the same festivals. Italy simply isn't a country of eccentricity, or a place where difference or diversity are accepted, let alone cherished. I once tried to experiment by putting an unorthodox topping on my pizza and was harangued by irate mates as if I'd committed a terrible crime.The conundrum of Italian racism is that Italy, ever a country of contradictions, is also a place of remarkable generosity and hospitality. I know it's easy for a white Englishman to say that, but centuries of visitors have noted Italians' esterofilia, their love of all things foreign. The dignity and intelligence of Kyenge in the face of recent attacks may yet remind Italians that they have a reputation for loving, rather than fearing, those from afar.Tobias Jones's Italian novel, Death of a Showgirl, has just been published by Faber", "tags": ["Italy", "Race issues", "The far right", "Europe", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Why is Italy still so racist?"},{"date": "2013-09-28T21:41:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "All five ministers from Silvio Berlusconi's centre-right party said on Saturday night they were resigning from Italy's grand coalition government in a dramatic move that plunged the country back into political uncertainty and raised the possibility of fresh elections.Just days before a senate committee is expected to vote for him to be stripped of his seat following a conviction for tax fraud, Berlusconi said he was withdrawing his support from Enrico Letta's government over an increase in sales tax.Letta, who has fought to hold the coalition together for five months of tensions and threats, called the move \"mad and irresponsible\" and said it was based on a \"blatant lie\". The centre-left prime minister will on Sunday meet the president, Giorgio Napolitano, who is known to be desperate to avoid any return to the polls.Talks will begin on whether an alternative parliamentary majority can be found to support a new Letta cabinet. He had called last week for the government to be put to a confidence vote, and, although it was unclear whether that would go ahead, the prime minister said on Saturday night: \"Everyone will assume their own responsibilities before the country in parliament.\"Italy, the eurozone's third largest economy, is in its longest recession in decades and can ill afford more instability and rudderless leadership. \"Measures we were working on now risk being set back,\" the labour minister, Enrico Giovannini, told Italian television. \"On Monday our borrowing costs are going to rise by many points.\"Citing Italy's continuing economic troubles, Beppe Grillo, the figurehead of the opposition anti-establishment Five Star Movement, called for fresh elections. \"We need to go to the polls to win and save Italy,\" he wrote on his blog. \"It's the last train.\"But Stefano Fassina, the deputy economy minister and Democratic party (PD) MP, insisted the best way forward would be to find a new majority to carry out urgently needed reforms. \"We won't go to elections because we will find a solution in parliament. I am sure that in parliament there is a majority that could avoid that,\" he was quoted by the Ansa news agency as saying.Berlusconi's move \u2013 made on the eve of his 77th birthday \u2013 surprised many analysts. Amid threats throughout the summer, some had suspected Berlusconi of bluffing in order to win last-minute concessions on his legal problems. On Friday, a senate committee is due to meet to vote on whether he should be expelled from the upper house of parliament, and by mid-October he has to decide whether to carry out his tax fraud sentence under house arrest or in community service. The committee vote, which is expected to go against him, would still have to be ratified in a full senate vote. The imminence of these problems appeared to have prompted the billionaire media magnate to side with party hawks, rather than those PdL members who over the summer had been urging a more conciliatory stance within the coalition.Amid questions over whether the party would back Berlusconi to the hilt, there were hints on Saturday night that the resignations had not met with the approval of all in the party. \"I think that a decision of such deep political importance should have required an in-depth discussion,\" said Fabrizio Cicchitto, one PdL MP.", "tags": ["Italy", "Silvio Berlusconi", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy plunged into chaos as Berlusconi withdraws ministers from coalition"},{"date": "2013-09-27T09:39:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Name: The Interior Co & Feathers Of ItalyCity: WhitchurchWebsite: www.theinteriorco.co.ukKerrie cleverly used her experience as an advertising manager 14 years ago to get her work, company and products into national interior magazines. Her work as an interior designer was featured in the June edition of Ideal Home and in May 2012's Country Homes and Interiors magazine. The Sunday Times has just done a write-up on her renovating a garage and turning it into a cottage. Ideal Home, Your Style and Your Home magazine featured her work and products in 2012. And House Beautiful featured The Interior Co in May this year. 25 Beautiful Homes' September edition published four pages on her as an interior designer and artist.She has gained a customer base of over 1,445 people by showcasing her products at 20 shows around the UK each year. She has also designed jewellery, clothing, scarves, wraps and leather goods, as well as introduced carefully selected Italian clothing on to the website last year. As a result, it is going very well in the UK, Ireland, Scotland, Europe, Canada and the USA.Recently she turned her newly acquired marketing skills in online social media to find Pinterest, where she pins over 90 products of her website. Everyday she has orders from all over the globe for her interior and clothing products and now has 38 subscribers to her newsletter in the USA who buy on a regular basis.She is now making healthy profits, and predicts turnover will double in 2013.Kerrie Griffin-Rogers is the creative director of The Interior Co & Feathers Of ItalyFind out how you can enter our Small Business Showcase here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Marketing and PR excellence: The Interior Co & Feathers Of Italy"},{"date": "2013-09-16T08:31:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A salvage team are in the process of attempting to right the stricken Costa Concordia cruise ship, in a precarious, unprecedented operation that is crucial to plans to tow the wreck away in one piece.Three hours after they were due to begin, engineers \u2013 whose plans were delayed by a fierce overnight storm \u2013 began an ambitious process of \"parbuckling\" at 9am local time, that they hope will result in the 114,000-tonne vessel being brought to rest securely on underwater platforms.Twenty months after the cruise ship crashed into rocks off the coast of the island of Giglio, causing the deaths of 32 people, project manager Sergio Girotto said steel cables being tightened by hydraulic jacks were exerting a force of 2,000 tonnes on the Concordia's rusting hull. That would be increased by 200 tonnes and after each rise engineers would check for movement, he said.\"Everything is going smoothly,\" added Girotto. But he cautioned: \"You will have to wait some time before you can see some change with the naked eye.\"The civil protection agency gave the final go-ahead for the parbuckling on Sunday, saying wind and sea conditions had fallen \"within the range of operating feasibility\". Initial testing, said senior salvage master Nick Sloane, had shown that \"she [the ship] is ready to move\".The project is expected to take between eight and 12 hours. Parbuckling is a common means of salvaging wrecked vessels, but it has never been used on a ship of the Concordia's size \u2013 the cruise liner is 290 metres (950ft) long \u2013 let alone one balancing precariously on two rock pinnacles on a steep slope.Speaking on Sunday to the hundreds of journalists who have descended on the small Tuscan island, the head of the civil protection agency, Franco Gabrielli, said he was \"100%\" sure of the operation ending in success. Last week the engineers said there was no plan B.Aside from the 500-strong team responsible for the salvage mission, those who will be most fervently hoping for a positive result are the relatives of the two people on the ship on the night of 13 January 2012 whose bodies have never been found.Elio Vincenzi, from Priolo Gargallo in Sicily, said he was desperately hoping the parbuckling would finally enable divers to locate the body of his wife, Maria Grazia Trecarichi, who had been on the cruise with her daughter, Stefania, for her 50th birthday.\"Now I just hope to be able to recover my wife's body, to be able to know what happened in those final moments, to be able to caress her before burying her near to her mother, in Sicily, as she wished,\" Vincenzi told La Repubblica.The brother of Russel Rebello, an Indian waiter who is also missing, will arrive on the island on Tuesday. On Friday, Kevin Rebello wrote on Facebook: \"I would like to take my little brother home.\"Francesco Schettino, the captain of the Concordia whom prosecutors accuse of losing control of the ship while performing a risky \"salute\" to Giglio, is standing trial for multiple manslaughter and abandoning ship. He denies the charges. Five other Costa Crociere employees have already been convicted of manslaughter.The parbuckling is the most important stage so far in the long and much-delayed salvage operation, the cost of which is estimated at more than \u20ac600m (\u00a3502m) \u2013 a figure that may well increase.If all goes according to plan, the steel chains will be used to rotate the ship 65 degrees and leave it to rest on the series of underwater platforms; which, when placed together, stretch to around 150m in length.Now that the engineers have begun the operation they cannot stop it \u2013 even if they run into problems.\"All the forces you're putting on her will cause a lot of deformation, so the weaker elements will deform and some will fracture,\" Sloane told the Guardian last week. \"And if you put it back then that's it, you've lost the chance. You only have one chance from the start.\"If the operation succeeds, the team will be able to move on to the next phase of the salvage \u2014 establishing the extent of the damage to the starboard side, attaching additional sponsons, then using the huge steel boxes to add buoyancy to the water-logged ship and help it to refloat.If it goes wrong, there are fears it could cause environmental damage due to materials and toxic liquids polluting waters known for their marine life.In total, over 30,000 tonnes of steel have been used for the parbuckling and refloating plans. The salvage is being led by the US company Titan Salvage and Italian engineers Micoperi.", "tags": ["Costa Concordia", "Italy", "Water transport", "World news"], "title": "Costa Concordia salvage operation gets under way in Italy"},{"date": "2013-10-02T21:20:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi has been challenged before by former political allies, like Gianfranco Fini, and survived. Maybe it's wish fulfilment, but this time it feels different. His party is in chaos after the handbrake turn he performed hours before he was due to face a humiliating split on a no-confidence vote. Having pulled five ministers out of government on Saturday and instructed his party to vote \"in unanimity\" against the government, 25 MPs from the centre-right Freedom People party (PdL) were reportedly ready to defy their leader by voting against and a similar number could have stayed away. His climbdown was curt and, maybe this time, conclusive. Whatever else happens, Mr Berlusconi is no longer in full control of his party.This political crisis was entirely of his own making. It was about him. That was the whole problem in the eyes of his former supporters in the industrial north. The country is wedged firmly in the longest recession since the second world war, and they see their party leader playing games with the coalition, ready to tip up the board if he loses. A significant portion of his party could not see the justification for bringing the coalition down now, simply because the ruling centre-left party refused to delay a vote, due on Friday, to expel Mr Berlusconi from the senate. Everyone, from the financial markets to industrialists, told the ageing leader that an election now would be unpopular and change little. Italy needed a government that could carry out reforms.For Enrico Letta, the scenes in the upper house of parliament were something of a pyrrhic victory. Mr Letta saw the revolt down but he did not achieve a real win. That would only have happened if Mr Berlusconi had gone ahead with his original project and lost. Mr Letta was certainly bolstered by the prospect of a split in the PdL's ranks, but until that definitively happens and a new centre-right faction is formed, the current coalition will limp on from one crisis to the next. Mr Letta's primary goal is to push through political reforms \u2013 such as changes to Italy's voting system, which would deliver decisive results and strong governments. With Beppo Grillo's Five Star Movement on 25% of the vote, Mr Letta can do little to reform Italy's electoral law without the centre right. So Mr Letta needs Mr Berlusconi to quit the political scene sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, he will not have endeared himself to those in his party who thought his coalition was about shoring up a corrupt, anti-communist, media tycoon.So although one can see the beginning of the end of an era in which Mr Berlusconi has dominated the centre-right, until a modern pro-reform party emerges to displace Forza Italia that dream is still some way from fruition. Extracting Mr Berlusconi could still be painful.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Red Letta day"},{"date": "2013-10-02T21:20:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi has been challenged before by former political allies, like Gianfranco Fini, and survived. Maybe it's wish fulfilment, but this time it feels different. His party is in chaos after the handbrake turn he performed hours before he was due to face a humiliating split on a no-confidence vote. Having pulled five ministers out of government on Saturday and instructed his party to vote \"in unanimity\" against the government, 25 MPs from the centre-right Freedom People party (PdL) were reportedly ready to defy their leader by voting against and a similar number could have stayed away. His climbdown was curt and, maybe this time, conclusive. Whatever else happens, Mr Berlusconi is no longer in full control of his party.This political crisis was entirely of his own making. It was about him. That was the whole problem in the eyes of his former supporters in the industrial north. The country is wedged firmly in the longest recession since the second world war, and they see their party leader playing games with the coalition, ready to tip up the board if he loses. A significant portion of his party could not see the justification for bringing the coalition down now, simply because the ruling centre-left party refused to delay a vote, due on Friday, to expel Mr Berlusconi from the senate. Everyone, from the financial markets to industrialists, told the ageing leader that an election now would be unpopular and change little. Italy needed a government that could carry out reforms.For Enrico Letta, the scenes in the upper house of parliament were something of a pyrrhic victory. Mr Letta saw the revolt down but he did not achieve a real win. That would only have happened if Mr Berlusconi had gone ahead with his original project and lost. Mr Letta was certainly bolstered by the prospect of a split in the PdL's ranks, but until that definitively happens and a new centre-right faction is formed, the current coalition will limp on from one crisis to the next. Mr Letta's primary goal is to push through political reforms \u2013 such as changes to Italy's voting system, which would deliver decisive results and strong governments. With Beppo Grillo's Five Star Movement on 25% of the vote, Mr Letta can do little to reform Italy's electoral law without the centre right. So Mr Letta needs Mr Berlusconi to quit the political scene sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, he will not have endeared himself to those in his party who thought his coalition was about shoring up a corrupt, anti-communist, media tycoon.So although one can see the beginning of the end of an era in which Mr Berlusconi has dominated the centre-right, until a modern pro-reform party emerges to displace Forza Italia that dream is still some way from fruition. Extracting Mr Berlusconi could still be painful.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Red Letta day"},{"date": "2013-11-19T14:00:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The people of Mantua are talking nothing but rubbish these days. A new waste sorting and disposal system has been introduced and it's causing a stir. There have been heated meetings between residents and municipal officials, letters to the press, street protests, everything short of a madcap boycott.Every household has been supplied with transparent plastic sacks and a set of mini-bins: there's a blue bin, a green bin, a brown bin, a grey bin and a substantial amount of explanatory literature. One issue immediately raised was where people in apartments without balconies would keep these bins.Previously we were free to sort our own rubbish and deposit it in discreet containers in the street, metres from the door. Now the containers have gone and there are collection times specific to certain types of rubbish and areas. From 7pm rubbish sacks and mini-bins begin to spread out along the streets and are easy pickings for dogs, cats, rats and no-gooders.My friend Antonio says leaving rubbish in a transparent sack at the front door is like hanging out your dirty laundry: \"What if I'm a Viagra user, or I have a chronic beer habit, or the wife and I shell peanuts in the kitchen on the QT for a big multinational? That'll come out in my now very public rubbish!\"Households have received an instruction manual written in four languages with a chart sorting over 500 items of rubbish into eight categories. You can't go wrong, if you have the patience to study it. So far, few have.Recently, I noticed from our window that passersby were slowing down and having a tentative look at something on the pavement outside the block. Somebody taken ill, a hurt animal? It was a rubbish sack that the collectors had refused; a sticker was slapped on it warning that the contents had been incorrectly sorted. As nobody wanted to own up to this brutta figura, it lay there for 10 days, eventually taking on the curiosity of a Banksy piece.Despite the civic unease, it will all sort itself out, as in 2005 when Italy became the third country in Europe to ban smoking in public places, and 2003 when a daytime headlight law for vehicles was introduced. Still, there is something therapeutic about having a good moan over a load of rubbish.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Waste", "Recycling"], "title": "Letter from Italy: trash culture"},{"date": "2013-10-02T21:20:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi has been challenged before by former political allies, like Gianfranco Fini, and survived. Maybe it's wish fulfilment, but this time it feels different. His party is in chaos after the handbrake turn he performed hours before he was due to face a humiliating split on a no-confidence vote. Having pulled five ministers out of government on Saturday and instructed his party to vote \"in unanimity\" against the government, 25 MPs from the centre-right Freedom People party (PdL) were reportedly ready to defy their leader by voting against and a similar number could have stayed away. His climbdown was curt and, maybe this time, conclusive. Whatever else happens, Mr Berlusconi is no longer in full control of his party.This political crisis was entirely of his own making. It was about him. That was the whole problem in the eyes of his former supporters in the industrial north. The country is wedged firmly in the longest recession since the second world war, and they see their party leader playing games with the coalition, ready to tip up the board if he loses. A significant portion of his party could not see the justification for bringing the coalition down now, simply because the ruling centre-left party refused to delay a vote, due on Friday, to expel Mr Berlusconi from the senate. Everyone, from the financial markets to industrialists, told the ageing leader that an election now would be unpopular and change little. Italy needed a government that could carry out reforms.For Enrico Letta, the scenes in the upper house of parliament were something of a pyrrhic victory. Mr Letta saw the revolt down but he did not achieve a real win. That would only have happened if Mr Berlusconi had gone ahead with his original project and lost. Mr Letta was certainly bolstered by the prospect of a split in the PdL's ranks, but until that definitively happens and a new centre-right faction is formed, the current coalition will limp on from one crisis to the next. Mr Letta's primary goal is to push through political reforms \u2013 such as changes to Italy's voting system, which would deliver decisive results and strong governments. With Beppo Grillo's Five Star Movement on 25% of the vote, Mr Letta can do little to reform Italy's electoral law without the centre right. So Mr Letta needs Mr Berlusconi to quit the political scene sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, he will not have endeared himself to those in his party who thought his coalition was about shoring up a corrupt, anti-communist, media tycoon.So although one can see the beginning of the end of an era in which Mr Berlusconi has dominated the centre-right, until a modern pro-reform party emerges to displace Forza Italia that dream is still some way from fruition. Extracting Mr Berlusconi could still be painful.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Red Letta day"},{"date": "2013-11-19T14:00:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The people of Mantua are talking nothing but rubbish these days. A new waste sorting and disposal system has been introduced and it's causing a stir. There have been heated meetings between residents and municipal officials, letters to the press, street protests, everything short of a madcap boycott.Every household has been supplied with transparent plastic sacks and a set of mini-bins: there's a blue bin, a green bin, a brown bin, a grey bin and a substantial amount of explanatory literature. One issue immediately raised was where people in apartments without balconies would keep these bins.Previously we were free to sort our own rubbish and deposit it in discreet containers in the street, metres from the door. Now the containers have gone and there are collection times specific to certain types of rubbish and areas. From 7pm rubbish sacks and mini-bins begin to spread out along the streets and are easy pickings for dogs, cats, rats and no-gooders.My friend Antonio says leaving rubbish in a transparent sack at the front door is like hanging out your dirty laundry: \"What if I'm a Viagra user, or I have a chronic beer habit, or the wife and I shell peanuts in the kitchen on the QT for a big multinational? That'll come out in my now very public rubbish!\"Households have received an instruction manual written in four languages with a chart sorting over 500 items of rubbish into eight categories. You can't go wrong, if you have the patience to study it. So far, few have.Recently, I noticed from our window that passersby were slowing down and having a tentative look at something on the pavement outside the block. Somebody taken ill, a hurt animal? It was a rubbish sack that the collectors had refused; a sticker was slapped on it warning that the contents had been incorrectly sorted. As nobody wanted to own up to this brutta figura, it lay there for 10 days, eventually taking on the curiosity of a Banksy piece.Despite the civic unease, it will all sort itself out, as in 2005 when Italy became the third country in Europe to ban smoking in public places, and 2003 when a daytime headlight law for vehicles was introduced. Still, there is something therapeutic about having a good moan over a load of rubbish.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Waste", "Recycling"], "title": "Letter from Italy: trash culture"},{"date": "2013-12-01T06:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italians say the best pecorino cheese is made from the milk of sheep that graze in wild places. I had no doubt that this was the case with the pale, aromatic slice I ate for breakfast, alongside a spoonful of pear conserve scented with saffron from crocuses grown in Gabriella's garden. There was also ricotta, homemade bread, cured meats and almost rudely ripe, intensely sweet persimmons from the tree we could see through the window.As we were finishing our second coffee, Mario, who had clearly been up for hours, pulled up a chair and talked to us with such passion about their land and their oil \u2013 their lifeblood, he called it, matter-of-factly \u2013 that we wanted nothing more than to walk the land and taste its produce.Abruzzo is half way down the boot of Italy, on the other side of the peninsula from Rome. It is a region of dramatic geography \u2013 high peaks contrasting with a diverse coastline and rich agricultural land still scratched with ancient tratturi, pathways along which shepherds moved their flocks in search of pasture. For centuries, although isolated by formidable mountains, Abruzzo was considered the store cupboard of Rome. It is still a region that provides abundantly, and although now thoroughly \"discovered\", it remains marvellously unspoilt, stoically true to itself and its deeply held traditions, not least when it comes to food.In some ways, Mario and Gabriella Tortella's agriturismo, Le Magnolie is a microcosm of Abruzzo itself, set between sea and mountains: the Adriatic is 25km to the east, and the Gran Sasso mountain looms to the west. The handsome 16th-century farmhouse sits on a hill near the town of Loreto Aprutino and is surrounded by land that provides olive oil, wine, wheat, fruit, vegetables, herbs and honey. The abundance is thanks, in part, to its sunny hillside position and mild climate, but also to the 30 years of hard work put in by our hosts. Their agriturismo, with two en suite rooms, plus self-catering apartments and a two-bedroom chalet, is lovely: stylish but not precious, and extremely comfortable.Days may be short in early November, but with the grape harvest just finished and the olive harvest still in progress, it is a significant time to visit Abruzzo, and especially the hill towns of Pianella, Moscufo and Loreto, often referred to as the golden triangle of olive oil.Walking out from Le Magnolie into the surrounding countryside dotted with farms and ancient outbuildings, we were quickly lost among ancient twisted trunks, silvery leaves and the precious fruits, the ground beneath our feet as rich and damp as the air. While some farms had finished their harvest and were burning rogue olive branches, folding nets or stacking multicoloured crates, others, slowed by the recent rain, were still hard at work, picking olives by hand or machine.To further our oil education, Mario drove us to the hamlet of Caprafico at the foot of the Majella massif. It was dark when we arrived, but not as dark as the mountains rising behind us like craggy giants. Apparently, on clear days the views are breathtaking. We heard the persistent hum of the frantoio, or olive oil press, long before we saw it. Freshly pressed olive oil smells rather like freshly cut grass: an incongruous but delicious odour on a damp November evening.Since 1924, four generations of the Masciantonio family have produced extra virgin olive oil at their mill, Trapeto di Caprafico, and it is now considered some of the best in Italy. Trapeto di Caprafico is a happy marriage of tradition and sleek modernity and the oil is sweet, grassy and reminiscent of almonds. This is olive oil that people evangelise over; six litres clinked in time with each curve as we drove back to Le Magnolie for dinner.That evening, at one of the long dining room tables, we tasted Mario and Gabriella's own oil, into which Gabriella had chopped dried sweet red peppers. It's called olio santo, holy oil, she told us, as she placed the dish on the table. We spooned the oil over white beans and slices of pumpkin. Next came handmade fettuccine dressed in a rich duck gravy, followed by the braised duck itself, falling off the bone. We finished with \u2013 and were finished off by \u2013 a fiendishly good ricotta, chocolate and almond pudding and a glass of inky-black digestivo made from sour cherries macerated in Montepulciano wine and sugar and left in the sun for 40 days.Wishing our four days were 40, we left Le Magnolie and drove towards the sea. Abruzzo's identity is so inextricably connected with mountains and pastures that it's easy to forget its 130km of coast \u2013 some parts rocky and formidable, some broad, sandy and inviting. We had an excellent fish lunch at Al Vecchio Teatro in part-grotty, part-delightful Ortona, then drove south down the coast road to our second agriturismo, Fattoria dell'Uliveto, in the town of Scerni, stopping along the way to count the trabocchi, ancient fishing platforms that rise from the water like skeletal sea monsters.Luigi di Lello, our second host, had been quite categorical: the best brodetto Vastese, the celebrated local fish soup, was to be found at Da Ferri (Via Osca 58, +39 0873 310320), a trattoria in the port region of the old town of Vasto. At first glance, the place seemed not just closed but desolate, and had me wondering if Luigi had booked a table at the right trattoria, but a side entrance opened up into a warm and suitably maritime dining room, presided over by a chef in a bright yellow toque.Brodetto Vastese is a dish inseparable from its history. For centuries, local fishermen, having sold the best of their catch to those who could afford it, would come inland and exchange the less-sought-after fish (often the most tasty) for the farmers' tomatoes, mild and fierce peppers, and olive oil. Made and served in a wide dish called a tijella, it is robust, gutsy food that requires rolled-up sleeves, a fork, a spoon, your hands and masses of toasted bread to mop up the deeply flavoured broth. The initially empty restaurant filled steadily with locals who approached their steaming bowls with reverence and strategy.Bartering has, it seems, played a fundamental role in the food of Abruzzo. During the laborious transumanza, the annual migration of thousands of sheep from the mountains through Abruzzo down to the plains of Puglia, shepherds would offer farmers sheep, wool and milk in exchange for shelter, oil, wheat, corn and vegetables.Luigi and his brother Antonio remember the transumanza passing in front of the family farm which is now the agriturismo. They are as dedicated to retaining the culinary traditions borne of this exchange \u2013 and of periods of both scarcity and abundance \u2013 as they are to cultivating their land, sharing knowledge and offering hospitality.Before Sunday lunch, we drove up into the hills to another plot of land where the two brothers and two other associates raise and slaughter pigs to make another very traditional food, ventricina del Vastese, a cured sausage of leg, loin and shoulder pork mixed with sweet and piquant red pepper, fennel seeds, black pepper and salt. Considered the best in Italy by the slow food movement, the brothers' ventricine were hanging like mottled cocoons in a cool stone room.It tasted every bit as good as it sounded \u2013 perfectly cured, warmly spiced and served as part of a huge lunch, eaten alongside seven or eight local families at Fattoria dell'Uliveto. Every element of the meal was produced on the farm: cheese for the polpette (croquettes of cheese, egg and breadcrumbs), flour for the maccheroni alla chitarra (fat spaghetti made by rolling out egg dough over thin wires stretched on a wooden frame like a guitar), chard, sweet fennel, pork and, of course, the olive oil and deep, dark young wine.This was generous and gloriously good home cooking steeped in tradition. After a herb-infused amaro, to help with digesting such bounty, we collapsed into a post-prandial nap.There is always a sagra, or local festival, going on somewhere in Abruzzo. I'd berated myself for the first two days for not having planned our trip around a festival of chestnuts, snails or some ancient ritual, but then on our last night we stumbled upon a sagra in the village of Casalbordino. We never actually ascertained what we were celebrating \u2013 although we suspected it was gratitude for both new wine and new oil, but the entire village and most of the surrounding ones appeared to have come together for a riotous night of eating, drinking and dancing.There were arrosticini, cubes of lamb impaled on wooden skewers and cooked over charcoal as shepherds have done for hundreds of years. We bought half a dozen between us and ate them while drinking violet vino novello from plastic cups and listening to a local band sing \"I feel good\" and watching half a dozen frisky men in medieval costume wrestle a passerby into the stocks.The next morning, we headed for the Majella national park. Here the mountains take on Alpine proportions, silent and empty, rising sharply and then descending gradually into thick forest cut by limpid rivers. Every so often, our breath was snatched by the sight of a village balanced precariously on a ridge or peak.But beautiful though it looked, it was not the scenery that had imprinted itself on my mind but something more elemental: smell. From the first discernible wild herb at Mario's gate, we had been on an olfactory journey: olive oil like freshly cut grass, fish soup robust with the scent of the sea, lamb seared over hot carbon, freshly pulled corks and the musty, carnal scent of 100 ventricine quietly curing.These were all sure signs of food closely connected to its source and its season \u2013 food that is a bold and honest expression of an extraordinary place, its history and traditions.Getting thereRyanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Abruzzo's only airport, Pescara, from \u00a325 one way, but there are loads of flights from all over the UK to Rome, which is a couple of hours' drive awayHow to do itThe trip was provided by Long Travel (01694 722193, long-travel.co.uk) which offers week-long trips to Abruzzo, with stays in two agriturismos, from \u00a3467.50, including car hire and half-board accommodation, but not flights\u2022 Rachel Roddy is a food blogger and writer based in Rome (racheleats.wordpress.com). Her first book, Five Quarters: Recipes from a Roman Kitchen, will be published by Saltyard Books in 2015", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Hotels", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A foodie autumn break in Abruzzo, Italy"},{"date": "2013-10-02T21:20:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi has been challenged before by former political allies, like Gianfranco Fini, and survived. Maybe it's wish fulfilment, but this time it feels different. His party is in chaos after the handbrake turn he performed hours before he was due to face a humiliating split on a no-confidence vote. Having pulled five ministers out of government on Saturday and instructed his party to vote \"in unanimity\" against the government, 25 MPs from the centre-right Freedom People party (PdL) were reportedly ready to defy their leader by voting against and a similar number could have stayed away. His climbdown was curt and, maybe this time, conclusive. Whatever else happens, Mr Berlusconi is no longer in full control of his party.This political crisis was entirely of his own making. It was about him. That was the whole problem in the eyes of his former supporters in the industrial north. The country is wedged firmly in the longest recession since the second world war, and they see their party leader playing games with the coalition, ready to tip up the board if he loses. A significant portion of his party could not see the justification for bringing the coalition down now, simply because the ruling centre-left party refused to delay a vote, due on Friday, to expel Mr Berlusconi from the senate. Everyone, from the financial markets to industrialists, told the ageing leader that an election now would be unpopular and change little. Italy needed a government that could carry out reforms.For Enrico Letta, the scenes in the upper house of parliament were something of a pyrrhic victory. Mr Letta saw the revolt down but he did not achieve a real win. That would only have happened if Mr Berlusconi had gone ahead with his original project and lost. Mr Letta was certainly bolstered by the prospect of a split in the PdL's ranks, but until that definitively happens and a new centre-right faction is formed, the current coalition will limp on from one crisis to the next. Mr Letta's primary goal is to push through political reforms \u2013 such as changes to Italy's voting system, which would deliver decisive results and strong governments. With Beppo Grillo's Five Star Movement on 25% of the vote, Mr Letta can do little to reform Italy's electoral law without the centre right. So Mr Letta needs Mr Berlusconi to quit the political scene sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, he will not have endeared himself to those in his party who thought his coalition was about shoring up a corrupt, anti-communist, media tycoon.So although one can see the beginning of the end of an era in which Mr Berlusconi has dominated the centre-right, until a modern pro-reform party emerges to displace Forza Italia that dream is still some way from fruition. Extracting Mr Berlusconi could still be painful.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Red Letta day"},{"date": "2013-11-19T14:00:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The people of Mantua are talking nothing but rubbish these days. A new waste sorting and disposal system has been introduced and it's causing a stir. There have been heated meetings between residents and municipal officials, letters to the press, street protests, everything short of a madcap boycott.Every household has been supplied with transparent plastic sacks and a set of mini-bins: there's a blue bin, a green bin, a brown bin, a grey bin and a substantial amount of explanatory literature. One issue immediately raised was where people in apartments without balconies would keep these bins.Previously we were free to sort our own rubbish and deposit it in discreet containers in the street, metres from the door. Now the containers have gone and there are collection times specific to certain types of rubbish and areas. From 7pm rubbish sacks and mini-bins begin to spread out along the streets and are easy pickings for dogs, cats, rats and no-gooders.My friend Antonio says leaving rubbish in a transparent sack at the front door is like hanging out your dirty laundry: \"What if I'm a Viagra user, or I have a chronic beer habit, or the wife and I shell peanuts in the kitchen on the QT for a big multinational? That'll come out in my now very public rubbish!\"Households have received an instruction manual written in four languages with a chart sorting over 500 items of rubbish into eight categories. You can't go wrong, if you have the patience to study it. So far, few have.Recently, I noticed from our window that passersby were slowing down and having a tentative look at something on the pavement outside the block. Somebody taken ill, a hurt animal? It was a rubbish sack that the collectors had refused; a sticker was slapped on it warning that the contents had been incorrectly sorted. As nobody wanted to own up to this brutta figura, it lay there for 10 days, eventually taking on the curiosity of a Banksy piece.Despite the civic unease, it will all sort itself out, as in 2005 when Italy became the third country in Europe to ban smoking in public places, and 2003 when a daytime headlight law for vehicles was introduced. Still, there is something therapeutic about having a good moan over a load of rubbish.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Waste", "Recycling"], "title": "Letter from Italy: trash culture"},{"date": "2013-12-01T06:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italians say the best pecorino cheese is made from the milk of sheep that graze in wild places. I had no doubt that this was the case with the pale, aromatic slice I ate for breakfast, alongside a spoonful of pear conserve scented with saffron from crocuses grown in Gabriella's garden. There was also ricotta, homemade bread, cured meats and almost rudely ripe, intensely sweet persimmons from the tree we could see through the window.As we were finishing our second coffee, Mario, who had clearly been up for hours, pulled up a chair and talked to us with such passion about their land and their oil \u2013 their lifeblood, he called it, matter-of-factly \u2013 that we wanted nothing more than to walk the land and taste its produce.Abruzzo is half way down the boot of Italy, on the other side of the peninsula from Rome. It is a region of dramatic geography \u2013 high peaks contrasting with a diverse coastline and rich agricultural land still scratched with ancient tratturi, pathways along which shepherds moved their flocks in search of pasture. For centuries, although isolated by formidable mountains, Abruzzo was considered the store cupboard of Rome. It is still a region that provides abundantly, and although now thoroughly \"discovered\", it remains marvellously unspoilt, stoically true to itself and its deeply held traditions, not least when it comes to food.In some ways, Mario and Gabriella Tortella's agriturismo, Le Magnolie is a microcosm of Abruzzo itself, set between sea and mountains: the Adriatic is 25km to the east, and the Gran Sasso mountain looms to the west. The handsome 16th-century farmhouse sits on a hill near the town of Loreto Aprutino and is surrounded by land that provides olive oil, wine, wheat, fruit, vegetables, herbs and honey. The abundance is thanks, in part, to its sunny hillside position and mild climate, but also to the 30 years of hard work put in by our hosts. Their agriturismo, with two en suite rooms, plus self-catering apartments and a two-bedroom chalet, is lovely: stylish but not precious, and extremely comfortable.Days may be short in early November, but with the grape harvest just finished and the olive harvest still in progress, it is a significant time to visit Abruzzo, and especially the hill towns of Pianella, Moscufo and Loreto, often referred to as the golden triangle of olive oil.Walking out from Le Magnolie into the surrounding countryside dotted with farms and ancient outbuildings, we were quickly lost among ancient twisted trunks, silvery leaves and the precious fruits, the ground beneath our feet as rich and damp as the air. While some farms had finished their harvest and were burning rogue olive branches, folding nets or stacking multicoloured crates, others, slowed by the recent rain, were still hard at work, picking olives by hand or machine.To further our oil education, Mario drove us to the hamlet of Caprafico at the foot of the Majella massif. It was dark when we arrived, but not as dark as the mountains rising behind us like craggy giants. Apparently, on clear days the views are breathtaking. We heard the persistent hum of the frantoio, or olive oil press, long before we saw it. Freshly pressed olive oil smells rather like freshly cut grass: an incongruous but delicious odour on a damp November evening.Since 1924, four generations of the Masciantonio family have produced extra virgin olive oil at their mill, Trapeto di Caprafico, and it is now considered some of the best in Italy. Trapeto di Caprafico is a happy marriage of tradition and sleek modernity and the oil is sweet, grassy and reminiscent of almonds. This is olive oil that people evangelise over; six litres clinked in time with each curve as we drove back to Le Magnolie for dinner.That evening, at one of the long dining room tables, we tasted Mario and Gabriella's own oil, into which Gabriella had chopped dried sweet red peppers. It's called olio santo, holy oil, she told us, as she placed the dish on the table. We spooned the oil over white beans and slices of pumpkin. Next came handmade fettuccine dressed in a rich duck gravy, followed by the braised duck itself, falling off the bone. We finished with \u2013 and were finished off by \u2013 a fiendishly good ricotta, chocolate and almond pudding and a glass of inky-black digestivo made from sour cherries macerated in Montepulciano wine and sugar and left in the sun for 40 days.Wishing our four days were 40, we left Le Magnolie and drove towards the sea. Abruzzo's identity is so inextricably connected with mountains and pastures that it's easy to forget its 130km of coast \u2013 some parts rocky and formidable, some broad, sandy and inviting. We had an excellent fish lunch at Al Vecchio Teatro in part-grotty, part-delightful Ortona, then drove south down the coast road to our second agriturismo, Fattoria dell'Uliveto, in the town of Scerni, stopping along the way to count the trabocchi, ancient fishing platforms that rise from the water like skeletal sea monsters.Luigi di Lello, our second host, had been quite categorical: the best brodetto Vastese, the celebrated local fish soup, was to be found at Da Ferri (Via Osca 58, +39 0873 310320), a trattoria in the port region of the old town of Vasto. At first glance, the place seemed not just closed but desolate, and had me wondering if Luigi had booked a table at the right trattoria, but a side entrance opened up into a warm and suitably maritime dining room, presided over by a chef in a bright yellow toque.Brodetto Vastese is a dish inseparable from its history. For centuries, local fishermen, having sold the best of their catch to those who could afford it, would come inland and exchange the less-sought-after fish (often the most tasty) for the farmers' tomatoes, mild and fierce peppers, and olive oil. Made and served in a wide dish called a tijella, it is robust, gutsy food that requires rolled-up sleeves, a fork, a spoon, your hands and masses of toasted bread to mop up the deeply flavoured broth. The initially empty restaurant filled steadily with locals who approached their steaming bowls with reverence and strategy.Bartering has, it seems, played a fundamental role in the food of Abruzzo. During the laborious transumanza, the annual migration of thousands of sheep from the mountains through Abruzzo down to the plains of Puglia, shepherds would offer farmers sheep, wool and milk in exchange for shelter, oil, wheat, corn and vegetables.Luigi and his brother Antonio remember the transumanza passing in front of the family farm which is now the agriturismo. They are as dedicated to retaining the culinary traditions borne of this exchange \u2013 and of periods of both scarcity and abundance \u2013 as they are to cultivating their land, sharing knowledge and offering hospitality.Before Sunday lunch, we drove up into the hills to another plot of land where the two brothers and two other associates raise and slaughter pigs to make another very traditional food, ventricina del Vastese, a cured sausage of leg, loin and shoulder pork mixed with sweet and piquant red pepper, fennel seeds, black pepper and salt. Considered the best in Italy by the slow food movement, the brothers' ventricine were hanging like mottled cocoons in a cool stone room.It tasted every bit as good as it sounded \u2013 perfectly cured, warmly spiced and served as part of a huge lunch, eaten alongside seven or eight local families at Fattoria dell'Uliveto. Every element of the meal was produced on the farm: cheese for the polpette (croquettes of cheese, egg and breadcrumbs), flour for the maccheroni alla chitarra (fat spaghetti made by rolling out egg dough over thin wires stretched on a wooden frame like a guitar), chard, sweet fennel, pork and, of course, the olive oil and deep, dark young wine.This was generous and gloriously good home cooking steeped in tradition. After a herb-infused amaro, to help with digesting such bounty, we collapsed into a post-prandial nap.There is always a sagra, or local festival, going on somewhere in Abruzzo. I'd berated myself for the first two days for not having planned our trip around a festival of chestnuts, snails or some ancient ritual, but then on our last night we stumbled upon a sagra in the village of Casalbordino. We never actually ascertained what we were celebrating \u2013 although we suspected it was gratitude for both new wine and new oil, but the entire village and most of the surrounding ones appeared to have come together for a riotous night of eating, drinking and dancing.There were arrosticini, cubes of lamb impaled on wooden skewers and cooked over charcoal as shepherds have done for hundreds of years. We bought half a dozen between us and ate them while drinking violet vino novello from plastic cups and listening to a local band sing \"I feel good\" and watching half a dozen frisky men in medieval costume wrestle a passerby into the stocks.The next morning, we headed for the Majella national park. Here the mountains take on Alpine proportions, silent and empty, rising sharply and then descending gradually into thick forest cut by limpid rivers. Every so often, our breath was snatched by the sight of a village balanced precariously on a ridge or peak.But beautiful though it looked, it was not the scenery that had imprinted itself on my mind but something more elemental: smell. From the first discernible wild herb at Mario's gate, we had been on an olfactory journey: olive oil like freshly cut grass, fish soup robust with the scent of the sea, lamb seared over hot carbon, freshly pulled corks and the musty, carnal scent of 100 ventricine quietly curing.These were all sure signs of food closely connected to its source and its season \u2013 food that is a bold and honest expression of an extraordinary place, its history and traditions.Getting thereRyanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Abruzzo's only airport, Pescara, from \u00a325 one way, but there are loads of flights from all over the UK to Rome, which is a couple of hours' drive awayHow to do itThe trip was provided by Long Travel (01694 722193, long-travel.co.uk) which offers week-long trips to Abruzzo, with stays in two agriturismos, from \u00a3467.50, including car hire and half-board accommodation, but not flights\u2022 Rachel Roddy is a food blogger and writer based in Rome (racheleats.wordpress.com). Her first book, Five Quarters: Recipes from a Roman Kitchen, will be published by Saltyard Books in 2015", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Hotels", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A foodie autumn break in Abruzzo, Italy"},{"date": "2013-10-14T17:43:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The news that Italians are eating less pasta \u2013 consumption has dropped from 40kg to 31kg per family per year in the past decade according to the Wall Street Journal \u2013 would have come as welcome news to the poet, writer and founder of the Futurist Movement, Fillipo Marinetti. In the Manifesto of Futurist Cooking, published in 1930, he suggested banning the consumption of pasta on the grounds that it led to lassitude, pessimism and general absence of get-up-and-go. (Incidentally, he also wanted to do away with knives and forks.)The reasons behind the recent decline may be more prosaic. Changes in work practices and a gradual incursion of foreign foods (sushi in particular) are tempering the nation's passion for pasta. Fear of weight gain is another factor: according to a Nielsen survey, the percentage of women aged between 26 and 30 who believe pasta is fattening increased by 26% between 2008 and 2012. Among men of the same age, the figure rose by 16%.As John Dickie pointed out in his fascinating book, Delizia!, the four-course structure that we have come to accept as the classic Italian meal \u2013 antipasto, primo piatto (pasta or rice), secondo piatto (meat or fish), dolce (pudding) \u2013 is of relatively recent 1930s origin. It could be argued that, in eschewing pasta, Italians are only returning to older habits. Indeed, in my various journeys through the country, I sometimes felt I was the only person stuffing themselves with all four courses twice a day. Except on high days and holidays, people would eat two courses, including pasta, at lunch, then a meat course in the evening.While Italians may be eating less pasta than of yore, it would be premature to diminish its importance in the national psyche. In all its forms, it is still the national dish, with a history going back to the Etruscans. Pasta links Italians to their past and to their sense of identity. In spite of the effects of internal migration, external cultural pressures and the modern trend to culinary homogenisation, most Italians still have an intense sense of local loyalty \u2013 campanilismo \u2013 part of which is reflected in local foods and dishes. Anyone who has witnessed the passion with which Piedmontese, for example, discuss the proper filling for agnolotti will understand the remark of an Italian friend of mine, who told me that his countrymen \"speak and eat in dialect\".It is, perhaps, ironic, that consumption of pasta is growing outside Italy. In the UK, according to the International Pasta Organisation, in 1987 we consumed just \u00a353m worth of the stuff. In 2009, this had risen to \u00a3282m. And that figure is still rising. While Italy may be slowly falling out of love with pasta, our own passion shows no sign of abating.", "tags": ["Pasta", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Has Italy lost its passion for pasta?"},{"date": "2013-10-02T21:20:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Silvio Berlusconi has been challenged before by former political allies, like Gianfranco Fini, and survived. Maybe it's wish fulfilment, but this time it feels different. His party is in chaos after the handbrake turn he performed hours before he was due to face a humiliating split on a no-confidence vote. Having pulled five ministers out of government on Saturday and instructed his party to vote \"in unanimity\" against the government, 25 MPs from the centre-right Freedom People party (PdL) were reportedly ready to defy their leader by voting against and a similar number could have stayed away. His climbdown was curt and, maybe this time, conclusive. Whatever else happens, Mr Berlusconi is no longer in full control of his party.This political crisis was entirely of his own making. It was about him. That was the whole problem in the eyes of his former supporters in the industrial north. The country is wedged firmly in the longest recession since the second world war, and they see their party leader playing games with the coalition, ready to tip up the board if he loses. A significant portion of his party could not see the justification for bringing the coalition down now, simply because the ruling centre-left party refused to delay a vote, due on Friday, to expel Mr Berlusconi from the senate. Everyone, from the financial markets to industrialists, told the ageing leader that an election now would be unpopular and change little. Italy needed a government that could carry out reforms.For Enrico Letta, the scenes in the upper house of parliament were something of a pyrrhic victory. Mr Letta saw the revolt down but he did not achieve a real win. That would only have happened if Mr Berlusconi had gone ahead with his original project and lost. Mr Letta was certainly bolstered by the prospect of a split in the PdL's ranks, but until that definitively happens and a new centre-right faction is formed, the current coalition will limp on from one crisis to the next. Mr Letta's primary goal is to push through political reforms \u2013 such as changes to Italy's voting system, which would deliver decisive results and strong governments. With Beppo Grillo's Five Star Movement on 25% of the vote, Mr Letta can do little to reform Italy's electoral law without the centre right. So Mr Letta needs Mr Berlusconi to quit the political scene sooner rather than later. Meanwhile, he will not have endeared himself to those in his party who thought his coalition was about shoring up a corrupt, anti-communist, media tycoon.So although one can see the beginning of the end of an era in which Mr Berlusconi has dominated the centre-right, until a modern pro-reform party emerges to displace Forza Italia that dream is still some way from fruition. Extracting Mr Berlusconi could still be painful.", "tags": ["Silvio Berlusconi", "World news", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy: Red Letta day"},{"date": "2013-11-19T14:00:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The people of Mantua are talking nothing but rubbish these days. A new waste sorting and disposal system has been introduced and it's causing a stir. There have been heated meetings between residents and municipal officials, letters to the press, street protests, everything short of a madcap boycott.Every household has been supplied with transparent plastic sacks and a set of mini-bins: there's a blue bin, a green bin, a brown bin, a grey bin and a substantial amount of explanatory literature. One issue immediately raised was where people in apartments without balconies would keep these bins.Previously we were free to sort our own rubbish and deposit it in discreet containers in the street, metres from the door. Now the containers have gone and there are collection times specific to certain types of rubbish and areas. From 7pm rubbish sacks and mini-bins begin to spread out along the streets and are easy pickings for dogs, cats, rats and no-gooders.My friend Antonio says leaving rubbish in a transparent sack at the front door is like hanging out your dirty laundry: \"What if I'm a Viagra user, or I have a chronic beer habit, or the wife and I shell peanuts in the kitchen on the QT for a big multinational? That'll come out in my now very public rubbish!\"Households have received an instruction manual written in four languages with a chart sorting over 500 items of rubbish into eight categories. You can't go wrong, if you have the patience to study it. So far, few have.Recently, I noticed from our window that passersby were slowing down and having a tentative look at something on the pavement outside the block. Somebody taken ill, a hurt animal? It was a rubbish sack that the collectors had refused; a sticker was slapped on it warning that the contents had been incorrectly sorted. As nobody wanted to own up to this brutta figura, it lay there for 10 days, eventually taking on the curiosity of a Banksy piece.Despite the civic unease, it will all sort itself out, as in 2005 when Italy became the third country in Europe to ban smoking in public places, and 2003 when a daytime headlight law for vehicles was introduced. Still, there is something therapeutic about having a good moan over a load of rubbish.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Waste", "Recycling"], "title": "Letter from Italy: trash culture"},{"date": "2013-12-01T06:00:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italians say the best pecorino cheese is made from the milk of sheep that graze in wild places. I had no doubt that this was the case with the pale, aromatic slice I ate for breakfast, alongside a spoonful of pear conserve scented with saffron from crocuses grown in Gabriella's garden. There was also ricotta, homemade bread, cured meats and almost rudely ripe, intensely sweet persimmons from the tree we could see through the window.As we were finishing our second coffee, Mario, who had clearly been up for hours, pulled up a chair and talked to us with such passion about their land and their oil \u2013 their lifeblood, he called it, matter-of-factly \u2013 that we wanted nothing more than to walk the land and taste its produce.Abruzzo is half way down the boot of Italy, on the other side of the peninsula from Rome. It is a region of dramatic geography \u2013 high peaks contrasting with a diverse coastline and rich agricultural land still scratched with ancient tratturi, pathways along which shepherds moved their flocks in search of pasture. For centuries, although isolated by formidable mountains, Abruzzo was considered the store cupboard of Rome. It is still a region that provides abundantly, and although now thoroughly \"discovered\", it remains marvellously unspoilt, stoically true to itself and its deeply held traditions, not least when it comes to food.In some ways, Mario and Gabriella Tortella's agriturismo, Le Magnolie is a microcosm of Abruzzo itself, set between sea and mountains: the Adriatic is 25km to the east, and the Gran Sasso mountain looms to the west. The handsome 16th-century farmhouse sits on a hill near the town of Loreto Aprutino and is surrounded by land that provides olive oil, wine, wheat, fruit, vegetables, herbs and honey. The abundance is thanks, in part, to its sunny hillside position and mild climate, but also to the 30 years of hard work put in by our hosts. Their agriturismo, with two en suite rooms, plus self-catering apartments and a two-bedroom chalet, is lovely: stylish but not precious, and extremely comfortable.Days may be short in early November, but with the grape harvest just finished and the olive harvest still in progress, it is a significant time to visit Abruzzo, and especially the hill towns of Pianella, Moscufo and Loreto, often referred to as the golden triangle of olive oil.Walking out from Le Magnolie into the surrounding countryside dotted with farms and ancient outbuildings, we were quickly lost among ancient twisted trunks, silvery leaves and the precious fruits, the ground beneath our feet as rich and damp as the air. While some farms had finished their harvest and were burning rogue olive branches, folding nets or stacking multicoloured crates, others, slowed by the recent rain, were still hard at work, picking olives by hand or machine.To further our oil education, Mario drove us to the hamlet of Caprafico at the foot of the Majella massif. It was dark when we arrived, but not as dark as the mountains rising behind us like craggy giants. Apparently, on clear days the views are breathtaking. We heard the persistent hum of the frantoio, or olive oil press, long before we saw it. Freshly pressed olive oil smells rather like freshly cut grass: an incongruous but delicious odour on a damp November evening.Since 1924, four generations of the Masciantonio family have produced extra virgin olive oil at their mill, Trapeto di Caprafico, and it is now considered some of the best in Italy. Trapeto di Caprafico is a happy marriage of tradition and sleek modernity and the oil is sweet, grassy and reminiscent of almonds. This is olive oil that people evangelise over; six litres clinked in time with each curve as we drove back to Le Magnolie for dinner.That evening, at one of the long dining room tables, we tasted Mario and Gabriella's own oil, into which Gabriella had chopped dried sweet red peppers. It's called olio santo, holy oil, she told us, as she placed the dish on the table. We spooned the oil over white beans and slices of pumpkin. Next came handmade fettuccine dressed in a rich duck gravy, followed by the braised duck itself, falling off the bone. We finished with \u2013 and were finished off by \u2013 a fiendishly good ricotta, chocolate and almond pudding and a glass of inky-black digestivo made from sour cherries macerated in Montepulciano wine and sugar and left in the sun for 40 days.Wishing our four days were 40, we left Le Magnolie and drove towards the sea. Abruzzo's identity is so inextricably connected with mountains and pastures that it's easy to forget its 130km of coast \u2013 some parts rocky and formidable, some broad, sandy and inviting. We had an excellent fish lunch at Al Vecchio Teatro in part-grotty, part-delightful Ortona, then drove south down the coast road to our second agriturismo, Fattoria dell'Uliveto, in the town of Scerni, stopping along the way to count the trabocchi, ancient fishing platforms that rise from the water like skeletal sea monsters.Luigi di Lello, our second host, had been quite categorical: the best brodetto Vastese, the celebrated local fish soup, was to be found at Da Ferri (Via Osca 58, +39 0873 310320), a trattoria in the port region of the old town of Vasto. At first glance, the place seemed not just closed but desolate, and had me wondering if Luigi had booked a table at the right trattoria, but a side entrance opened up into a warm and suitably maritime dining room, presided over by a chef in a bright yellow toque.Brodetto Vastese is a dish inseparable from its history. For centuries, local fishermen, having sold the best of their catch to those who could afford it, would come inland and exchange the less-sought-after fish (often the most tasty) for the farmers' tomatoes, mild and fierce peppers, and olive oil. Made and served in a wide dish called a tijella, it is robust, gutsy food that requires rolled-up sleeves, a fork, a spoon, your hands and masses of toasted bread to mop up the deeply flavoured broth. The initially empty restaurant filled steadily with locals who approached their steaming bowls with reverence and strategy.Bartering has, it seems, played a fundamental role in the food of Abruzzo. During the laborious transumanza, the annual migration of thousands of sheep from the mountains through Abruzzo down to the plains of Puglia, shepherds would offer farmers sheep, wool and milk in exchange for shelter, oil, wheat, corn and vegetables.Luigi and his brother Antonio remember the transumanza passing in front of the family farm which is now the agriturismo. They are as dedicated to retaining the culinary traditions borne of this exchange \u2013 and of periods of both scarcity and abundance \u2013 as they are to cultivating their land, sharing knowledge and offering hospitality.Before Sunday lunch, we drove up into the hills to another plot of land where the two brothers and two other associates raise and slaughter pigs to make another very traditional food, ventricina del Vastese, a cured sausage of leg, loin and shoulder pork mixed with sweet and piquant red pepper, fennel seeds, black pepper and salt. Considered the best in Italy by the slow food movement, the brothers' ventricine were hanging like mottled cocoons in a cool stone room.It tasted every bit as good as it sounded \u2013 perfectly cured, warmly spiced and served as part of a huge lunch, eaten alongside seven or eight local families at Fattoria dell'Uliveto. Every element of the meal was produced on the farm: cheese for the polpette (croquettes of cheese, egg and breadcrumbs), flour for the maccheroni alla chitarra (fat spaghetti made by rolling out egg dough over thin wires stretched on a wooden frame like a guitar), chard, sweet fennel, pork and, of course, the olive oil and deep, dark young wine.This was generous and gloriously good home cooking steeped in tradition. After a herb-infused amaro, to help with digesting such bounty, we collapsed into a post-prandial nap.There is always a sagra, or local festival, going on somewhere in Abruzzo. I'd berated myself for the first two days for not having planned our trip around a festival of chestnuts, snails or some ancient ritual, but then on our last night we stumbled upon a sagra in the village of Casalbordino. We never actually ascertained what we were celebrating \u2013 although we suspected it was gratitude for both new wine and new oil, but the entire village and most of the surrounding ones appeared to have come together for a riotous night of eating, drinking and dancing.There were arrosticini, cubes of lamb impaled on wooden skewers and cooked over charcoal as shepherds have done for hundreds of years. We bought half a dozen between us and ate them while drinking violet vino novello from plastic cups and listening to a local band sing \"I feel good\" and watching half a dozen frisky men in medieval costume wrestle a passerby into the stocks.The next morning, we headed for the Majella national park. Here the mountains take on Alpine proportions, silent and empty, rising sharply and then descending gradually into thick forest cut by limpid rivers. Every so often, our breath was snatched by the sight of a village balanced precariously on a ridge or peak.But beautiful though it looked, it was not the scenery that had imprinted itself on my mind but something more elemental: smell. From the first discernible wild herb at Mario's gate, we had been on an olfactory journey: olive oil like freshly cut grass, fish soup robust with the scent of the sea, lamb seared over hot carbon, freshly pulled corks and the musty, carnal scent of 100 ventricine quietly curing.These were all sure signs of food closely connected to its source and its season \u2013 food that is a bold and honest expression of an extraordinary place, its history and traditions.Getting thereRyanair (ryanair.com) flies from Stansted to Abruzzo's only airport, Pescara, from \u00a325 one way, but there are loads of flights from all over the UK to Rome, which is a couple of hours' drive awayHow to do itThe trip was provided by Long Travel (01694 722193, long-travel.co.uk) which offers week-long trips to Abruzzo, with stays in two agriturismos, from \u00a3467.50, including car hire and half-board accommodation, but not flights\u2022 Rachel Roddy is a food blogger and writer based in Rome (racheleats.wordpress.com). Her first book, Five Quarters: Recipes from a Roman Kitchen, will be published by Saltyard Books in 2015", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Hotels", "Food & drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A foodie autumn break in Abruzzo, Italy"},{"date": "2013-10-14T17:43:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The news that Italians are eating less pasta \u2013 consumption has dropped from 40kg to 31kg per family per year in the past decade according to the Wall Street Journal \u2013 would have come as welcome news to the poet, writer and founder of the Futurist Movement, Fillipo Marinetti. In the Manifesto of Futurist Cooking, published in 1930, he suggested banning the consumption of pasta on the grounds that it led to lassitude, pessimism and general absence of get-up-and-go. (Incidentally, he also wanted to do away with knives and forks.)The reasons behind the recent decline may be more prosaic. Changes in work practices and a gradual incursion of foreign foods (sushi in particular) are tempering the nation's passion for pasta. Fear of weight gain is another factor: according to a Nielsen survey, the percentage of women aged between 26 and 30 who believe pasta is fattening increased by 26% between 2008 and 2012. Among men of the same age, the figure rose by 16%.As John Dickie pointed out in his fascinating book, Delizia!, the four-course structure that we have come to accept as the classic Italian meal \u2013 antipasto, primo piatto (pasta or rice), secondo piatto (meat or fish), dolce (pudding) \u2013 is of relatively recent 1930s origin. It could be argued that, in eschewing pasta, Italians are only returning to older habits. Indeed, in my various journeys through the country, I sometimes felt I was the only person stuffing themselves with all four courses twice a day. Except on high days and holidays, people would eat two courses, including pasta, at lunch, then a meat course in the evening.While Italians may be eating less pasta than of yore, it would be premature to diminish its importance in the national psyche. In all its forms, it is still the national dish, with a history going back to the Etruscans. Pasta links Italians to their past and to their sense of identity. In spite of the effects of internal migration, external cultural pressures and the modern trend to culinary homogenisation, most Italians still have an intense sense of local loyalty \u2013 campanilismo \u2013 part of which is reflected in local foods and dishes. Anyone who has witnessed the passion with which Piedmontese, for example, discuss the proper filling for agnolotti will understand the remark of an Italian friend of mine, who told me that his countrymen \"speak and eat in dialect\".It is, perhaps, ironic, that consumption of pasta is growing outside Italy. In the UK, according to the International Pasta Organisation, in 1987 we consumed just \u00a353m worth of the stuff. In 2009, this had risen to \u00a3282m. And that figure is still rising. While Italy may be slowly falling out of love with pasta, our own passion shows no sign of abating.", "tags": ["Pasta", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Has Italy lost its passion for pasta?"},{"date": "2013-10-10T18:54:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Dixons has become the latest British retailer to retreat from international adventures, handing over a dowry of \u20ac35m (\u00a330m) to get rid of its loss-making Italian business.Under the deal, Dixons will merge its Unieuro business with rival Marco Polo, which is controlled by private equity firm Rh\u00f4ne Capital. Dixons will invest up to \u20ac10m in the new entity and leave the business with \u20ac25m. In return, Dixons will get a 15% stake in the merged business.Sebastian James, chief executive, said the deal gave \"clarity\" on the future of the business which produced a loss of \u00a34.1m on sales of \u00a3516m in the year to April. Unieuro was expected to be hived off as part of James's plan for Dixons to \"stick to the knitting\" \u2013 focusing on countries where it is market leader or the strong number two.James said: \"This is a terrific outcome for both Unieuro and Marco Polo, as it creates a unified force that has the potential to be at the forefront of electrical retailing in this large European market.\"The release of the struggling Italian business follows Dixons' \u00a32m disposal of Turkish operation ElectroWorld and another deal last month, when it gave a German restructuring firm \u20ac69m to take away its loss-making Pixmania electricals e-tailer. That business lost Dixons more than \u00a3250m in seven years of ownership.Dixons shares rose nearly 6% as it said the divestment would boost its underlying earnings for the current year. The shares rose 6% to 46.7p as analysts said the terms were reasonable and James had done well to get out of the company's misadventures abroad. His plan echoes that followed by Tesco chief executive Philip Clarke, who has pulled the supermarket out of the US and Japan and organised a merger in China as he tries to tackle problems at home.Nick Bubb, an independent retail analyst said: \"This is what people have been waiting for.\" He said Dixons could now focus on its more successful Scandinavian and UK operations, although its Greek operations were still suffering amid the country's economic problems.He said: \"The important thing now is not so much fixing Greece as making sure nothing else goes wrong.\" Dixons faces strong competition in Scandinavia and in the UK. Its PC World and Currys stores have performed well in the past year when they have benefited from the collapse of rival Comet in November last year. Bubb said: \"After the anniversary of Comet's demise next month, Dixons will need to show it can build on that and it should be helped by the stronger housing market.\"", "tags": ["Dixons Retail", "Retail industry", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Dixons pays \u00a330m to merge Italy business"},{"date": "2014-03-24T15:28:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Japan announced on Monday that it would hand over hundreds of kilogrammes of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to the United States for dilution and disposal, at the start of a global summit aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism.Belgium and Italy also announced agreements with the US on the removal of surplus fissile material, as part of a continuing Washington-led effort to reduce global stockpiles and the number of sites around the world where they are stored.Under the agreement, Japan will ship more than 300kg of plutonium and 200kg of highly enriched uranium (HEU) from its nuclear research site. The material would be enough to build about 40 nuclear warheads.Japan's stock of weapons-grade material has been a source of friction with China, particularly after rightwing Japanese politicians suggested that it may have value as a deterrent, even though the country ruled out development of nuclear weapons in 1967.The radioactive material is only a small proportion of Japan's stock, but is in a form that would make it easy to use in a nuclear warhead.The agreement with Japan was hailed by US officials as the greatest success so far resulting from President Obama's 2009 initiative.A 2013 deadline \"to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years\" has been missed. Since 2010, when the first of three nuclear security summits was held in Washington, 10 countries have rid themselves completely of plutonium and HEU: Chile, Serbia, Turkey, Austria, Mexico, Sweden, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Vietnam. The deadline was extended with the announcement there would be a fourth summit in Washington in 2016.The two-day meeting in The Hague, involving 53 world leaders, will focus on improving security for global stocks of other radiological isotopes including cobalt 60 and caesium 137 which are used in industry, research and medicine but which could be used in a \"dirty bomb\" to irradiate a large urban area.Despite the advances made in the past four years, a former US senator, Sam Nunn, the chief executive officer of a Washington-based thinktank called the Nuclear Threat Initiative, warned in a report published before the Hague summit that \"nearly 2,000 metric [tonnes] of weapons-usable nuclear materials remain spread across hundreds of sites around the globe \u2013 some of it poorly secured\".The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Yukiya Amano, said last year there were a hundred reported thefts on nuclear and radioactive materials on average each year, although such incidents so far have involved very small quantities.\"We are going in the right direction,\" said Joe Cirincione, the head of the Ploughshares Fund, which promotes disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. But he added: \"When you are fleeing a forest fire, however, it is not a question of direction but of speed. Can we get to safety before disaster overwhelms us? The current pace is only sporadically urgent. Worse, there is a real chance that even this co-operation will cease after the final, planned summit in 2016.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific", "Italy", "Europe", "Belgium", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Science"], "title": "Japan, Belgium and Italy reduce their stockpiles of nuclear material"},{"date": "2014-03-24T15:28:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Japan announced on Monday that it would hand over hundreds of kilogrammes of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to the United States for dilution and disposal, at the start of a global summit aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism.Belgium and Italy also announced agreements with the US on the removal of surplus fissile material, as part of a continuing Washington-led effort to reduce global stockpiles and the number of sites around the world where they are stored.Under the agreement, Japan will ship more than 300kg of plutonium and 200kg of highly enriched uranium (HEU) from its nuclear research site. The material would be enough to build about 40 nuclear warheads.Japan's stock of weapons-grade material has been a source of friction with China, particularly after rightwing Japanese politicians suggested that it may have value as a deterrent, even though the country ruled out development of nuclear weapons in 1967.The radioactive material is only a small proportion of Japan's stock, but is in a form that would make it easy to use in a nuclear warhead.The agreement with Japan was hailed by US officials as the greatest success so far resulting from President Obama's 2009 initiative.A 2013 deadline \"to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years\" has been missed. Since 2010, when the first of three nuclear security summits was held in Washington, 10 countries have rid themselves completely of plutonium and HEU: Chile, Serbia, Turkey, Austria, Mexico, Sweden, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Vietnam. The deadline was extended with the announcement there would be a fourth summit in Washington in 2016.The two-day meeting in The Hague, involving 53 world leaders, will focus on improving security for global stocks of other radiological isotopes including cobalt 60 and caesium 137 which are used in industry, research and medicine but which could be used in a \"dirty bomb\" to irradiate a large urban area.Despite the advances made in the past four years, a former US senator, Sam Nunn, the chief executive officer of a Washington-based thinktank called the Nuclear Threat Initiative, warned in a report published before the Hague summit that \"nearly 2,000 metric [tonnes] of weapons-usable nuclear materials remain spread across hundreds of sites around the globe \u2013 some of it poorly secured\".The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Yukiya Amano, said last year there were a hundred reported thefts on nuclear and radioactive materials on average each year, although such incidents so far have involved very small quantities.\"We are going in the right direction,\" said Joe Cirincione, the head of the Ploughshares Fund, which promotes disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. But he added: \"When you are fleeing a forest fire, however, it is not a question of direction but of speed. Can we get to safety before disaster overwhelms us? The current pace is only sporadically urgent. Worse, there is a real chance that even this co-operation will cease after the final, planned summit in 2016.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific", "Italy", "Europe", "Belgium", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Science"], "title": "Japan, Belgium and Italy reduce their stockpiles of nuclear material"},{"date": "2014-03-16T16:29:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than 17 years since it was stolen from a gallery in northern Italy, Gustav Klimt's Portrait of a Woman is reportedly once again the subject of a police investigation after technological advances allowed for the case to be reopened.The oil painting, believed to date from 1916-1917, was stolen from the Ricci-Oddi gallery in Piacenza in February 1997 and disappeared without a trace.Now, thanks to more sophisticated testing of the frame, investigators are hoping that new test results will provide a DNA match with one or more suspects, the Italian news agency Ansa reported.In the aftermath of the theft, which appeared to be timed to coincide with renovation work in advance of which many works were removed from the gallery, police appeared flummoxed.They were unable to say whether the thief \u2013 or thieves \u2013 had come in through the main entrance or had used a string and hook to fish the painting through a nearby skylight. All that was left was an empty frame with a partial fingerprint which police now hope will yield an answer.The work, acquired by the collection in 1925, was thought to be too famous to sell on, leading some to speculate that it had been stolen to order.In it, a young woman with dark hair and rouged cheeks is shown against a green background. It is one of the most sought-after stolen works in Italy.The Austrian artist, a co-founder of the Viennese Secession, is the subject of an exhibition at the Palazzo Reale in Milan, near Piacenza.", "tags": ["Art theft", "Italy", "Gustav Klimt", "Art and design", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Gustav Klimt theft case reopens in Italy 17 years on"},{"date": "2014-03-24T15:28:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Japan announced on Monday that it would hand over hundreds of kilogrammes of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to the United States for dilution and disposal, at the start of a global summit aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism.Belgium and Italy also announced agreements with the US on the removal of surplus fissile material, as part of a continuing Washington-led effort to reduce global stockpiles and the number of sites around the world where they are stored.Under the agreement, Japan will ship more than 300kg of plutonium and 200kg of highly enriched uranium (HEU) from its nuclear research site. The material would be enough to build about 40 nuclear warheads.Japan's stock of weapons-grade material has been a source of friction with China, particularly after rightwing Japanese politicians suggested that it may have value as a deterrent, even though the country ruled out development of nuclear weapons in 1967.The radioactive material is only a small proportion of Japan's stock, but is in a form that would make it easy to use in a nuclear warhead.The agreement with Japan was hailed by US officials as the greatest success so far resulting from President Obama's 2009 initiative.A 2013 deadline \"to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years\" has been missed. Since 2010, when the first of three nuclear security summits was held in Washington, 10 countries have rid themselves completely of plutonium and HEU: Chile, Serbia, Turkey, Austria, Mexico, Sweden, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Vietnam. The deadline was extended with the announcement there would be a fourth summit in Washington in 2016.The two-day meeting in The Hague, involving 53 world leaders, will focus on improving security for global stocks of other radiological isotopes including cobalt 60 and caesium 137 which are used in industry, research and medicine but which could be used in a \"dirty bomb\" to irradiate a large urban area.Despite the advances made in the past four years, a former US senator, Sam Nunn, the chief executive officer of a Washington-based thinktank called the Nuclear Threat Initiative, warned in a report published before the Hague summit that \"nearly 2,000 metric [tonnes] of weapons-usable nuclear materials remain spread across hundreds of sites around the globe \u2013 some of it poorly secured\".The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Yukiya Amano, said last year there were a hundred reported thefts on nuclear and radioactive materials on average each year, although such incidents so far have involved very small quantities.\"We are going in the right direction,\" said Joe Cirincione, the head of the Ploughshares Fund, which promotes disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. But he added: \"When you are fleeing a forest fire, however, it is not a question of direction but of speed. Can we get to safety before disaster overwhelms us? The current pace is only sporadically urgent. Worse, there is a real chance that even this co-operation will cease after the final, planned summit in 2016.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific", "Italy", "Europe", "Belgium", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Science"], "title": "Japan, Belgium and Italy reduce their stockpiles of nuclear material"},{"date": "2014-03-16T16:29:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than 17 years since it was stolen from a gallery in northern Italy, Gustav Klimt's Portrait of a Woman is reportedly once again the subject of a police investigation after technological advances allowed for the case to be reopened.The oil painting, believed to date from 1916-1917, was stolen from the Ricci-Oddi gallery in Piacenza in February 1997 and disappeared without a trace.Now, thanks to more sophisticated testing of the frame, investigators are hoping that new test results will provide a DNA match with one or more suspects, the Italian news agency Ansa reported.In the aftermath of the theft, which appeared to be timed to coincide with renovation work in advance of which many works were removed from the gallery, police appeared flummoxed.They were unable to say whether the thief \u2013 or thieves \u2013 had come in through the main entrance or had used a string and hook to fish the painting through a nearby skylight. All that was left was an empty frame with a partial fingerprint which police now hope will yield an answer.The work, acquired by the collection in 1925, was thought to be too famous to sell on, leading some to speculate that it had been stolen to order.In it, a young woman with dark hair and rouged cheeks is shown against a green background. It is one of the most sought-after stolen works in Italy.The Austrian artist, a co-founder of the Viennese Secession, is the subject of an exhibition at the Palazzo Reale in Milan, near Piacenza.", "tags": ["Art theft", "Italy", "Gustav Klimt", "Art and design", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Gustav Klimt theft case reopens in Italy 17 years on"},{"date": "2014-03-08T16:25:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": " 4.25pm GMT That was ruthlessly efficient from Ireland and it felt like we\u2019d gone back to the tournament\u2019s embryonic days when Italy were plucky but hopelessly outclassed. O\u2019Driscoll was quite, quite brilliant today \u2013 far better than I\u2019ve seen him in a couple of years, in fact.So next weekend Ireland will go to Paris to try and take the Six Nations title. Join me again in, er, half an hour for Scotland v France. Bye for now! 4.23pm GMT 15m infield on the right, Jackson slices it wide. 4.22pm GMT The penalty was taken quickly as you\u2019d expect. We had a few phases before Jack McGrath went over from close range. 4.21pm GMT 80 min Cronin bursts through the middle then McFadden chips and gathers his own kicks. Ireland rumble up to with about 6m of the line and shift the play to under the posts. We go left and Trimble kicks through; it goes dead but we go back for a penalty. 4.20pm GMT 79 min Can you guess who was named man of the match? Go on, there\u2019s a prize on offer.**Obviously there isn\u2019t. 4.19pm GMT Ireland trying to stretch the Italian defensive line now. They go right and left, and then infield to Fergus McFadden who steps through then dives over under the posts from close range. Jackson drop kicks the conversion. 4.17pm GMT 76 min That\u2019s a beauty of a penalty from Jackson, kicked from around halfway in the centre of the park right on to the Italian 5m line on the left. The cheering every time BOD appears on the big screen is getting a bit sycophantic now. 4.16pm GMT 75 min Ireland are looking to run and pass everything at the moment and it\u2019s not quite coming off. You get the feeling that if they\u2019d kept things a little simpler as they did earlier on then they might have racked up a cricket score. Although 34-7 isn\u2019t unlike an England cricket score, I suppose. 4.14pm GMT 73 min This is petering out now. Why not keep up with what\u2019s happening in the football world by popping by Gregg Bakowski\u2019s clockwatch? 4.12pm GMT 72 min A rare attacking platform for Italy as they have a scrum just outside the 22. They go right and turn it over, but will get another chance as D\u2019Arcy fires an absurdly wide pass forwards. 4.11pm GMT 71 min Gori is on at scrum half for Italy, with bleached blonde hair reminiscent of a Romanian footballer circa France 98. 4.09pm GMT Rifled through from the touchline. Very nice. 4.08pm GMT Ireland nearly blow the chance as Henry holds on and goes for the line himself with the Kearneys outside of him on the overlap. The ball is stolen brilliantly but Ruddock wins it again and the ball squirts out to Cronin, who shows good pace to go around and into the left-hand corner. 4.06pm GMT 67 min Italy are offside at a ruck in the 22 and Jackson knocks it into the corner on the right. 4.05pm GMT 66 min Ireland getting it wide again before Kearney batters into the defence, knocking them backwards. Ireland owning the gainline in midfield now. 4.03pm GMT 65 min Sexton is off too, with Paddy Jackson on. Ireland have taken off their most creative player for the day as well as the man who\u2019s scored 17 of their points. Have they declared here? Italy are looking tired so fresh legs could hurt them. 4.01pm GMT 64 min Kearney runs down the left and chips ahead, but it goes out of play on the full. 4.01pm GMT 61 min The great player\u2019s days in the Irish jersey on home soil are done as he goes off to be replaced by... no one cares by whom. This has been a vintage latter-day BOD performance, creating three tries with gossamer hands. He gets a standing ovation and will have received few better deserved.(It was McFadden who came on) 3.59pm GMT Right on the left touchline this one and it\u2019s just wide. 3.58pm GMT This O\u2019Driscoll fella is alright, isn\u2019t he? He makes a half-break inside the 22 on the left then throws a wonderful offload out of the tackle and out the back of the hand to Kearney (R), who passes out to his brother, who pops it inside for Sexton to go over in the corner for his second. That was utterly magnificent. 3.55pm GMT 58 min \u201cAnything you can do...\u201d begin Italy, before realising they\u2019re not actually as good as Ireland and much chucking it about results in the ball being handed back to Ireland. BOD makes a break before realising he can\u2019t make it and cutting back across the field to look for support. He gets smashed in a tackle and stays down, but I think he\u2019s only winded. Yes, O\u2019Driscoll gets back to his feet and receives the biggest cheer of the day. 3.52pm GMT 57 min Cronin knocks on as Ireland look to go through the hands again. Ireland forgetting, it seems that their tries have all come indirectly from set pieces.Ross off, Moore on.Derbyshire off, Vosowai on. De Marchi also replaced by Rizzo. 3.51pm GMT 56 min Ireland smell blood as Kearney runs with extreme intent upon fielding a long, aimless kick from McLean. It\u2019s chipped ahead and Italy clear but Dave K runs it back down the left touchline. Knocked on in the 22 though. 3.49pm GMT Healy hurt himself scoring that and goes off to be replaced by McGrath and Ruddock replaces Henderson. Sexton lines up the conversion wide on the right but drags it across goal.Best off too, Cronin on. 3.48pm GMT Quickly taken tap by Reddan once again keeps Italy backpeddling and Healy muscles his way over from a couple of metres. 3.47pm GMT 52 min Slow ball for Ireland in the centre, just inside the 22. It goes left and Sexton passes inside to Heaslip before O\u2019Connell makes ground. Through the hands and right now and Italy concede a penalty on the floor 5m out. 3.45pm GMT 50 min Poor clearance from Italy with their scrum under pressure and Ireland have another lineout in the 22. Here\u2019s how our very own Paul Doyle feels about Ireland\u2019s attacking efforts:Sigh 3.44pm GMT 49 min The penalty is from where the game was due to be restarted with a scrum. Nigel Owens is a quite outstanding ref. It\u2019s kickable but Sexton kicks to the corner on the right and Italy do very well to splinter the maul. Ireland go again but are held up and Italy will get the scrum 5m from their own line. 3.42pm GMT 48 min Fight! Fight! Fight! It\u2019s quite a mild one, as you\u2019d expect from the diminutive Tebaldi standing up to Paul O\u2019Connell. We\u2019re going to check there was nothing sinister but I think it\u2019s just a scuffle. Yes it was a scuffle between O\u2019Connell and Bortolami, then Tebaldi came in and grabbed the Irish captain around the neck and is penalised for it. 3.39pm GMT 47 min Good kick from Sexton to touch on the right, a couple of metres outside the 22. Good chance this and they go off the top, but Furno disrupts the move by going for the interception and knocking on. 3.38pm GMT 45 min Tebaldi sends up a high kick, which Kearney does very well to win from Derbyshire. Ireland turn it over in midfield again though and the dangerous McLean is probing. He holds on though and it\u2019s a penalty to Ireland just inside their own half. 3.36pm GMT 43 min I\u2019ll take my winnings. O\u2019Driscoll gets the ball and chips ahead into the 22, but Sexton was in front of the kicker and we go back for an Italian penalty in the centre of the field, which Orquera kicks to touch on the left, on the Ireland 10m line. Orquera looks a much better 10 than Tomasso \u201cTommy\u201d Allan. 3.34pm GMT 42 min What a maul from Ireland, who go 20m upfield and win a penalty. Sexton, with no room to work with on the right, sends it up to just outside the Italian 22. Another maul coming, I\u2019ll wager. 3.33pm GMT 41 min Here we go. Dave Kearney spills a high ball and Orquera sends a lovely raking kick into space, and indeed into touch, down the right inside the Ireland 22 behind D\u2019Arcy. 3.32pm GMT @DanLucas86 maybe - think D'Arcy has benefitted more from BOD's longevity than he has. Oh, hang on - was that ANOTHER try scoring pass..? 3.30pm GMT How long can Italy keep up this resolute, physical defence against a very fit and relentless Ireland side? 3.20pm GMT That was enthralling. Very few set pieces, ambitious attacking rugby with no shortage of skill being met by firm defence \u2013 and that from both sides. I\u2019ll see you in 10mins or so. 3.19pm GMT 40 min Derbyshire is back on for Voswai now. And that\u2019s that for a brilliant first half of rugby. 3.18pm GMT The try was scored wide on the left, so that\u2019s where the conversion will be taken, as per the laws of the game. No matter for Sexton though, who knocks it over coolly. 3.17pm GMT Crikey this is ridiculous. Ireland come flying at the line time and again but it\u2019s brilliant defence from Italy and they\u2019ve won a turnover! Sarto spies a gap and is this close to being away, but it\u2019s knocked on and Ireland come again through BOD. Several phases now in the midfield before they go left and O\u2019Driscoll pops out a fantastic pass to Trimble who carries it over the line.Updated at 3.48pm GMT 3.14pm GMT 36 min Oh this is wonderful! It\u2019s taken quickly by Reddan and goes through the hands. O\u2019Driscoll and Trimble are the men to make the most headway and before you can say \u201cOh eff\u201d they\u2019re up to within 10m of the Italian line. 3.13pm GMT 35 min and this is bad for Italy as Derbyshire goes off and the massive Vosawai comes on. Italy win the lineout and look to batter the Irish defence on the 22, but defence is solid and it\u2019s a penalty for holding on. 3.11pm GMT 34 min Ireland are under huge pressure at the scrum and Reddan is smothered. It eventually gets back to Rob Kearney who, again under huge pressure, slices his kick into touch just beyond the 22. 3.10pm GMT 33 min McLean goes through the middle after selling an outrageous dummy just outside the 22! O\u2019Connell and Henry were made to look like chumps there. There\u2019s a very slight knock on though in the 22 by Tebaldi and the chance goes. 3.08pm GMT We\u2019re about 16m infield from the left, just inside the 22. Sexton takes his time over this... still... then thumps it through and Aerosmith urge us to walk their way over the PA. 3.06pm GMT 30 min Finally. Reddan picks up and scampers down the blindside to within inches! Ireland are held up but Bortolami comes in at the side of the ruck and we\u2019ll have a penalty. That was a cynical kill from the Italian captain and should really have been a yellow card. You could even make the argument for a penalty try. 3.05pm GMT 28 min So we\u2019ll have a scrum, which is an apropos time to look at this email from Ben on scrums: \u201cThe latest changes have shown what any experienced front row could have told you; reduce the delays in binding, put the ball in straight and show firm, consistent reffing and a few yellow cards for dragging down, and it will soon sort itself out.\u201dI\u2019d guess you were a front row, Ben? That sounds like the common sense, straight talking of a former hooker to me. Although against you, this particular scrum is taking ages. 3.02pm GMT 27 min Chance now for Ireland as Sexton\u2019s up-and-under is badly missed by Orquera. Ireland scrap for, and win, the bouncing ball but there\u2019s no advantage and we\u2019ll go back for Orquera\u2019s knock-on. 3.01pm GMT Oh my. From midfield turnover ball Italy go left and Sarto picks up a scrappy ball on the touchline. Missed tackle by Rob Kearney on Sarto, who then steps inside Dave and scampers under the posts! Orquera levels the scores.Updated at 3.19pm GMT 2.59pm GMT 23 min Turnover ball, well-won by O\u2019Connell just outside the Italian 22. Heaslip shifts it left but Ireland are held up in a maul and it\u2019s a scrum to Italy. Derbyshire has been excellent, making 12 tackles already. 2.57pm GMT 22 min BOD spots space and rolls a neat kick into it behind the Italian three quarter line. It\u2019s well covered by scrum-half Tebaldi though and from the lineout O\u2019Connell, not for the first time today, knocks on. 2.56pm GMT 20 min \u201cSo, what\u2019s the gainline?\u201d my flatmate asked me a few weeks back. Italy may as well ask the same question as they\u2019re battered back into their own 22 by Ireland. The home side get to within 10m before knocking on under little pressure. That was sloppy. 2.54pm GMT 19 min McLean clears to touch on halfway down the left. Almost a quarter of the way through the match and not a single penalty, nor a reset scrum, so far as far as I can recall. 2.53pm GMT 17 min Castrogiovanni has reportedly broken his ribs and they\u2019re missing him here as Ireland take the scrum against the head! Ireland are keeping it narrow but losing ground, so play is shifted to the flanks. It\u2019s passed back inside before Reddan switches back to the right and chips across for Trimble, but overcooks it into touch. 2.51pm GMT 16 min Here come Ireland again, with Rob K showing great strength to burst through one tackle and into the 22, straight down the middle. POC tries to carry it on but loses the ball forwards. Another injury though as Conor Murray limps off and Eoin Reddan comes on. 2.49pm GMT 14 min Sexton on the loop again makes a break down the right and the move is carried on by Heaslip. He\u2019s dragged down but offloads well to Trimble, the Ulsterman cutting inside off his wing and gets into the 22. Lovely offloading from Ireland here but they crucially can\u2019t get it away off the floor and Italy\u2019s defence scrambles back. It goes left but is knocked on the 22 and from the scrum Italy clear. 2.47pm GMT 12 min Italy still have possession around the Irish 10m line in the middle of the park and they\u2019re rumbling forwards rather effectively now. Esposito makes a half break and suddenly they\u2019re within 10m, but it\u2019s dropped and Rob Kearney belts it all the way downfield. 2.45pm GMT 11 min It\u2019s a scrappy lineout but Ireland eventually kick clear. Italy run it back and on halfway McLean thinks he\u2019s seen a gap. It proves a mirage though as he\u2019s stopped in his tracks.\u201cWatch the replay again,\u201d instructs Will Corcoran. \u201cSexton copped a shoulder in the head.\u201dHmm didn\u2019t see that. 2.43pm GMT 9 min Cian Healy knocks on and Italy go down the short side, Sarto trying to wriggle through and proving slippery. Eventually Heaslip hangs on to him but Italy spread it to the right flank, where Campagnaro is dragged into touch on the 22. 2.42pm GMT 8 min Castrogiovanni is down and won\u2019t be able to continue, so Cittadini comes on earlier than he would have expected. Now Toner steals a lineout for Ireland on his own 10m line and Ireland send it wide, Dave Kearney looking to step through. 2.40pm GMT From right in front it\u2019s easy enough. Sexton, getting up after sliding over, was slightly bumped by one of the Italians and promptly went down like one of those footballers they have now. That was poor. 2.39pm GMT There we go. From a solid scrum 35m out the ball is passed out to O\u2019Driscoll who slipped it nicely inside to Sexton on the loop. The fly-half turns on the gas to go over.Updated at 3.18pm GMT 2.37pm GMT 6 min 20 phases and about zero metres gained. Connor Murray then throws a short pass on to Orquera\u2019s fingertips, but the fly half can\u2019t hold on to the interception. A few phases previously, Orquera put in a mighty tackle on Gordon D\u2019Arcy. 2.36pm GMT 4 min Ireland going through the phases here but being held up on the Italian 10m line. Italy\u2019s replacement forwards holding out in the early exchanges, but it feels like a matter of time. Paul Derbyshire, whose name sounds less like that of a fearsome Italian flanker and more like a journeyman striker who would have played for Blackburn Rovers circa 1995, looks impressive. 2.35pm GMT 3 min Hope for Italy? Not according to Ben: \u201cIreland to hand out a walloping today, I think. Italy lucked out last year as they occasionally do, that\u2019s all.Perhaps we should have a new trophy, the \u201cBest of the Rest\u201d to be played fir between those perennial tackle dummies, Italy and Scotland? Said trophy to be awarded in perpetuity in the unlikely event of either team ever qualifying from the pool stages of RWC.\u201dA little patronising that last suggestion, but I get where you\u2019re coming from.Updated at 2.35pm GMT 2.34pm GMT 2 min Apologies, it\u2019s an Irish lineout. Which is taken in my Toner and mauled upfield. The ball is spread very wide very quickly and Rob Kearney kicks ahead. McClean returns to the exact same spot from whence it came though. Which is halfway, on the Italian right. 2.32pm GMT 1 min Nigel Owens blows his whistle and Orquera kicks off from left to right for Italy. It\u2019s taken in on the 22 and Ireland immediately go wide and run it up to the 10m line. It\u2019s recycled and Sexton slices an up-and-under badly. The ball bobbles into touch and Italy have a lineout on the left, just outside the 22. 2.27pm GMT A big win for Ireland v Italy today and the 6 Nations' title is their's to lose. 2.26pm GMT Asks Carlo Del Fava if he\n\never thought he could succeed despite not being a \u201clooker\u201d\n can see a way for Italy to win this. Remarkably, Carlo doesn\u2019t laugh at the notion but says Italy will win if they \u201cstick to their structures\u201d.Expect said structures to be in rubble within about ten minutes. 2.09pm GMT Northampton are ten minutes or so from beating salary cap-fans Saracens for the third time this season. Back in a minute, I\u2019m off to feel smug. 2.08pm GMT Of course the reason for that song is, presumably, because this will be BOD\u2019s final international home game. With the 2015 World Cup just around the corner, picking him is pretty much pandering to his ego at the possible expense of long-term planning. Still, if anyone\u2019s earned that... 2.03pm GMT This, from Corrigan Brothers Music, is a thing that\u2019s actually been written. I may have been hasty in picking East India Youth for today\u2019s musical interlude...Now BOD is his name, and it has to bea player of such graceas we were faced with him in all of his glorywho will replace him is the only question And yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeLook at BODs faceand all his desireto play with such passionand light up the fireof Ireland\u2019s Glorywho will replace himis the only questionAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home4 triple Crowns, And a Grand SlamThe Best in the Worldthis Irish ManOh BOD you brought gloryand we thank youCoz you were just the best oneAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home 2.00pm GMT Song of the year so far. This is a real cracker. 1.45pm GMT Ireland : 15-Rob Kearney; 14-Andrew Trimble, 13-Brian O\u2019Driscoll, 12-Gordon D\u2019Arcy, 11-Dave Kearney; 10-Jonny Sexton, 9-Conor Murray; 1-Cian Healy, 2-Rory Best, 3-Mike Ross, 4-Devin Toner, 5-Paul O\u2019Connell, 6-Iain Henderson, 7-Chris Henry, 8-Jamie HeaslipReplacements: 16-Sean Cronin, 17-Jack McGrath, 18-Martin Moore, 19-Rhys Ruddock, 20-Jordi Murphy, 21-Eoin Reddan, 22-Paddy Jackson, 23-Fergus McFaddenItaly : 15-Luke McLean; 14-Angelo Esposito, 13-Michele Campagnaro, 12-Gonzalo Garcia, 11-Leonardo Sarto; 10-Luciano Orquera, 9-Tito Tebaldi; 1-Alberto De Marchi, 2-Leonardo Ghiraldini, 3-Martin Castrogiovanni, 4-Quintin Geldenhuys, 5-Marco Bortolami, 6-Joshua Furno, 7-Paul Derbyshire, 8-Robert BarbieriReplacements: 16-Davide Giazzon, 17-Michele Rizzo, 18-Lorenzo Cittadini, 19-Antonio Pavanello, 20-Manoa Vosawai, 21-Edoardo Gori, 22-Tommy Allan, 23-Andrea Masi 1.45pm GMT Right this is a tough one. For me to write that is, rather than for either side. Ireland should win by a landslide here, whereas for Italy the word \u201ctough\u201d doesn\u2019t come close to describing the task ahead.If ever there was a match to epitomise two teams heading in opposite directions over the course of twelve months, then this is it. Italy won last year in Rome and finished a place above Ireland, but they look very much like a team going backwards rather than building on a best-ever championship finish; indeed they\u2019re heavily odds-on with the bookmakers to finish up with the wooden spoon this year. The Italian cause won\u2019t be helped by the absence of their entire first-choice back row either; any team would miss a player as good as Sergio Parisse anyway, let alone one that\u2019s not even looked like beating a decent side (Scotland don\u2019t count folks) since November.Ireland are definitely going the other way. The wooden spoon is what they avoided by the skins of their teeth last season, but this time around and under Joe Schmidt they have to be the favourites to win the competition. While Italy\u2019s back row is absent, Ireland\u2019s has been immense in this year\u2019s Six Nations and it was rather overlooked two weeks ago how well Chris Robshaw did to nullify the brilliant Peter O\u2019Mahoney. Unlike Italy they also have reliable half-backs and this might well present them with their first opportunity this year to set the backline alight rather than simply try to dictate territory.Brian O\u2019Driscoll has always struck me as a man for whom winning is absolutely everything; that the final victory is all that matters and if his own body/Warren Gatland\u2019s reputation needs to take a battering to ensure it, then so be it. As such it feels like Italy are being lined up as road kill this afternoon, a little rabbit in the path of a juggernaut; one of the other women unfortunate enough to be called Sarah Connor.Kick-off is 2.30pm. I\u2019m going with Ireland by 30 for this one.  1.45pm GMT I know we haven\u2019t kicked off yet, but Ireland have already won this one by a street and will thus take the Six Nations crown next weekend when they beat a hitherto rubbish France in Paris.Preamble ends. 1.45pm GMT Dan will be here from around 2pm. In the meantime have a read of Brendan Fanning\u2019s preview of the match:In the buildup to Saturday\u2019s Test at the Aviva Stadium a radio commentator referred to the contest as being \u201cmassive for Ireland\u201d. In reality the fixture with Italy is the least massive of the championship. For the home team the target in Dublin \u2013 which Joe Schmidt and co are doing their best to avoid articulating \u2013 is to win by a street, to tee them up for an assault on the title in Paris next weekend. If you want to talk about things massive then consider the scale of the challenge for the Italians.Hobbled by injuries in their back row, where Sergio Parisse is the most critical casualty ahead of Alessandro Zanni, Mauro Bergamasco and Francesco Minto, Italy are looking at a whole new set of circumstances to those in Rome last year, when they beat Ireland for the first time in the Six Nations. Back then Ireland were playing poorly, having been winless in the previous three games, and a freakish set of circumstances then saw them lose three backs in the opening quarter. The odds on the latter being repeated are so long as to be off the chart. As for the former, Ireland look like a different side.\u201cI think there is another level of confidence that is building in the players in how they are approaching their game and there is also some extra competition within the ranks,\u201d says the defence coach Les Kiss. \u201cWhen we look across the board at all the players we could select it\u2019s getting more and more competitive and that in itself is driving on standards even greater in our environment.\u201cThat\u2019s the nature of the beast in international level. If you look at teams around the world, the All Blacks realised that. They just keep taking that step forward, making positive steps, being innovative but being solid about what they are about. England have made some massive changes through Stuart Lancaster and are really building a solid culture and all that sort of stuff. From our respect, we are just evolving and moving into another phase where the blokes are very confident about what they are doing.\u201dRead the full article here.", "tags": ["Six Nations", "Ireland rugby union team", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby union"], "title": "Ireland v Italy: Six Nations \u2013 as it happened | Dan Lucas"},{"date": "2014-03-24T15:28:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Japan announced on Monday that it would hand over hundreds of kilogrammes of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to the United States for dilution and disposal, at the start of a global summit aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism.Belgium and Italy also announced agreements with the US on the removal of surplus fissile material, as part of a continuing Washington-led effort to reduce global stockpiles and the number of sites around the world where they are stored.Under the agreement, Japan will ship more than 300kg of plutonium and 200kg of highly enriched uranium (HEU) from its nuclear research site. The material would be enough to build about 40 nuclear warheads.Japan's stock of weapons-grade material has been a source of friction with China, particularly after rightwing Japanese politicians suggested that it may have value as a deterrent, even though the country ruled out development of nuclear weapons in 1967.The radioactive material is only a small proportion of Japan's stock, but is in a form that would make it easy to use in a nuclear warhead.The agreement with Japan was hailed by US officials as the greatest success so far resulting from President Obama's 2009 initiative.A 2013 deadline \"to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years\" has been missed. Since 2010, when the first of three nuclear security summits was held in Washington, 10 countries have rid themselves completely of plutonium and HEU: Chile, Serbia, Turkey, Austria, Mexico, Sweden, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Vietnam. The deadline was extended with the announcement there would be a fourth summit in Washington in 2016.The two-day meeting in The Hague, involving 53 world leaders, will focus on improving security for global stocks of other radiological isotopes including cobalt 60 and caesium 137 which are used in industry, research and medicine but which could be used in a \"dirty bomb\" to irradiate a large urban area.Despite the advances made in the past four years, a former US senator, Sam Nunn, the chief executive officer of a Washington-based thinktank called the Nuclear Threat Initiative, warned in a report published before the Hague summit that \"nearly 2,000 metric [tonnes] of weapons-usable nuclear materials remain spread across hundreds of sites around the globe \u2013 some of it poorly secured\".The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Yukiya Amano, said last year there were a hundred reported thefts on nuclear and radioactive materials on average each year, although such incidents so far have involved very small quantities.\"We are going in the right direction,\" said Joe Cirincione, the head of the Ploughshares Fund, which promotes disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. But he added: \"When you are fleeing a forest fire, however, it is not a question of direction but of speed. Can we get to safety before disaster overwhelms us? The current pace is only sporadically urgent. Worse, there is a real chance that even this co-operation will cease after the final, planned summit in 2016.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific", "Italy", "Europe", "Belgium", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Science"], "title": "Japan, Belgium and Italy reduce their stockpiles of nuclear material"},{"date": "2014-03-16T16:29:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than 17 years since it was stolen from a gallery in northern Italy, Gustav Klimt's Portrait of a Woman is reportedly once again the subject of a police investigation after technological advances allowed for the case to be reopened.The oil painting, believed to date from 1916-1917, was stolen from the Ricci-Oddi gallery in Piacenza in February 1997 and disappeared without a trace.Now, thanks to more sophisticated testing of the frame, investigators are hoping that new test results will provide a DNA match with one or more suspects, the Italian news agency Ansa reported.In the aftermath of the theft, which appeared to be timed to coincide with renovation work in advance of which many works were removed from the gallery, police appeared flummoxed.They were unable to say whether the thief \u2013 or thieves \u2013 had come in through the main entrance or had used a string and hook to fish the painting through a nearby skylight. All that was left was an empty frame with a partial fingerprint which police now hope will yield an answer.The work, acquired by the collection in 1925, was thought to be too famous to sell on, leading some to speculate that it had been stolen to order.In it, a young woman with dark hair and rouged cheeks is shown against a green background. It is one of the most sought-after stolen works in Italy.The Austrian artist, a co-founder of the Viennese Secession, is the subject of an exhibition at the Palazzo Reale in Milan, near Piacenza.", "tags": ["Art theft", "Italy", "Gustav Klimt", "Art and design", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Gustav Klimt theft case reopens in Italy 17 years on"},{"date": "2014-03-08T16:25:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": " 4.25pm GMT That was ruthlessly efficient from Ireland and it felt like we\u2019d gone back to the tournament\u2019s embryonic days when Italy were plucky but hopelessly outclassed. O\u2019Driscoll was quite, quite brilliant today \u2013 far better than I\u2019ve seen him in a couple of years, in fact.So next weekend Ireland will go to Paris to try and take the Six Nations title. Join me again in, er, half an hour for Scotland v France. Bye for now! 4.23pm GMT 15m infield on the right, Jackson slices it wide. 4.22pm GMT The penalty was taken quickly as you\u2019d expect. We had a few phases before Jack McGrath went over from close range. 4.21pm GMT 80 min Cronin bursts through the middle then McFadden chips and gathers his own kicks. Ireland rumble up to with about 6m of the line and shift the play to under the posts. We go left and Trimble kicks through; it goes dead but we go back for a penalty. 4.20pm GMT 79 min Can you guess who was named man of the match? Go on, there\u2019s a prize on offer.**Obviously there isn\u2019t. 4.19pm GMT Ireland trying to stretch the Italian defensive line now. They go right and left, and then infield to Fergus McFadden who steps through then dives over under the posts from close range. Jackson drop kicks the conversion. 4.17pm GMT 76 min That\u2019s a beauty of a penalty from Jackson, kicked from around halfway in the centre of the park right on to the Italian 5m line on the left. The cheering every time BOD appears on the big screen is getting a bit sycophantic now. 4.16pm GMT 75 min Ireland are looking to run and pass everything at the moment and it\u2019s not quite coming off. You get the feeling that if they\u2019d kept things a little simpler as they did earlier on then they might have racked up a cricket score. Although 34-7 isn\u2019t unlike an England cricket score, I suppose. 4.14pm GMT 73 min This is petering out now. Why not keep up with what\u2019s happening in the football world by popping by Gregg Bakowski\u2019s clockwatch? 4.12pm GMT 72 min A rare attacking platform for Italy as they have a scrum just outside the 22. They go right and turn it over, but will get another chance as D\u2019Arcy fires an absurdly wide pass forwards. 4.11pm GMT 71 min Gori is on at scrum half for Italy, with bleached blonde hair reminiscent of a Romanian footballer circa France 98. 4.09pm GMT Rifled through from the touchline. Very nice. 4.08pm GMT Ireland nearly blow the chance as Henry holds on and goes for the line himself with the Kearneys outside of him on the overlap. The ball is stolen brilliantly but Ruddock wins it again and the ball squirts out to Cronin, who shows good pace to go around and into the left-hand corner. 4.06pm GMT 67 min Italy are offside at a ruck in the 22 and Jackson knocks it into the corner on the right. 4.05pm GMT 66 min Ireland getting it wide again before Kearney batters into the defence, knocking them backwards. Ireland owning the gainline in midfield now. 4.03pm GMT 65 min Sexton is off too, with Paddy Jackson on. Ireland have taken off their most creative player for the day as well as the man who\u2019s scored 17 of their points. Have they declared here? Italy are looking tired so fresh legs could hurt them. 4.01pm GMT 64 min Kearney runs down the left and chips ahead, but it goes out of play on the full. 4.01pm GMT 61 min The great player\u2019s days in the Irish jersey on home soil are done as he goes off to be replaced by... no one cares by whom. This has been a vintage latter-day BOD performance, creating three tries with gossamer hands. He gets a standing ovation and will have received few better deserved.(It was McFadden who came on) 3.59pm GMT Right on the left touchline this one and it\u2019s just wide. 3.58pm GMT This O\u2019Driscoll fella is alright, isn\u2019t he? He makes a half-break inside the 22 on the left then throws a wonderful offload out of the tackle and out the back of the hand to Kearney (R), who passes out to his brother, who pops it inside for Sexton to go over in the corner for his second. That was utterly magnificent. 3.55pm GMT 58 min \u201cAnything you can do...\u201d begin Italy, before realising they\u2019re not actually as good as Ireland and much chucking it about results in the ball being handed back to Ireland. BOD makes a break before realising he can\u2019t make it and cutting back across the field to look for support. He gets smashed in a tackle and stays down, but I think he\u2019s only winded. Yes, O\u2019Driscoll gets back to his feet and receives the biggest cheer of the day. 3.52pm GMT 57 min Cronin knocks on as Ireland look to go through the hands again. Ireland forgetting, it seems that their tries have all come indirectly from set pieces.Ross off, Moore on.Derbyshire off, Vosowai on. De Marchi also replaced by Rizzo. 3.51pm GMT 56 min Ireland smell blood as Kearney runs with extreme intent upon fielding a long, aimless kick from McLean. It\u2019s chipped ahead and Italy clear but Dave K runs it back down the left touchline. Knocked on in the 22 though. 3.49pm GMT Healy hurt himself scoring that and goes off to be replaced by McGrath and Ruddock replaces Henderson. Sexton lines up the conversion wide on the right but drags it across goal.Best off too, Cronin on. 3.48pm GMT Quickly taken tap by Reddan once again keeps Italy backpeddling and Healy muscles his way over from a couple of metres. 3.47pm GMT 52 min Slow ball for Ireland in the centre, just inside the 22. It goes left and Sexton passes inside to Heaslip before O\u2019Connell makes ground. Through the hands and right now and Italy concede a penalty on the floor 5m out. 3.45pm GMT 50 min Poor clearance from Italy with their scrum under pressure and Ireland have another lineout in the 22. Here\u2019s how our very own Paul Doyle feels about Ireland\u2019s attacking efforts:Sigh 3.44pm GMT 49 min The penalty is from where the game was due to be restarted with a scrum. Nigel Owens is a quite outstanding ref. It\u2019s kickable but Sexton kicks to the corner on the right and Italy do very well to splinter the maul. Ireland go again but are held up and Italy will get the scrum 5m from their own line. 3.42pm GMT 48 min Fight! Fight! Fight! It\u2019s quite a mild one, as you\u2019d expect from the diminutive Tebaldi standing up to Paul O\u2019Connell. We\u2019re going to check there was nothing sinister but I think it\u2019s just a scuffle. Yes it was a scuffle between O\u2019Connell and Bortolami, then Tebaldi came in and grabbed the Irish captain around the neck and is penalised for it. 3.39pm GMT 47 min Good kick from Sexton to touch on the right, a couple of metres outside the 22. Good chance this and they go off the top, but Furno disrupts the move by going for the interception and knocking on. 3.38pm GMT 45 min Tebaldi sends up a high kick, which Kearney does very well to win from Derbyshire. Ireland turn it over in midfield again though and the dangerous McLean is probing. He holds on though and it\u2019s a penalty to Ireland just inside their own half. 3.36pm GMT 43 min I\u2019ll take my winnings. O\u2019Driscoll gets the ball and chips ahead into the 22, but Sexton was in front of the kicker and we go back for an Italian penalty in the centre of the field, which Orquera kicks to touch on the left, on the Ireland 10m line. Orquera looks a much better 10 than Tomasso \u201cTommy\u201d Allan. 3.34pm GMT 42 min What a maul from Ireland, who go 20m upfield and win a penalty. Sexton, with no room to work with on the right, sends it up to just outside the Italian 22. Another maul coming, I\u2019ll wager. 3.33pm GMT 41 min Here we go. Dave Kearney spills a high ball and Orquera sends a lovely raking kick into space, and indeed into touch, down the right inside the Ireland 22 behind D\u2019Arcy. 3.32pm GMT @DanLucas86 maybe - think D'Arcy has benefitted more from BOD's longevity than he has. Oh, hang on - was that ANOTHER try scoring pass..? 3.30pm GMT How long can Italy keep up this resolute, physical defence against a very fit and relentless Ireland side? 3.20pm GMT That was enthralling. Very few set pieces, ambitious attacking rugby with no shortage of skill being met by firm defence \u2013 and that from both sides. I\u2019ll see you in 10mins or so. 3.19pm GMT 40 min Derbyshire is back on for Voswai now. And that\u2019s that for a brilliant first half of rugby. 3.18pm GMT The try was scored wide on the left, so that\u2019s where the conversion will be taken, as per the laws of the game. No matter for Sexton though, who knocks it over coolly. 3.17pm GMT Crikey this is ridiculous. Ireland come flying at the line time and again but it\u2019s brilliant defence from Italy and they\u2019ve won a turnover! Sarto spies a gap and is this close to being away, but it\u2019s knocked on and Ireland come again through BOD. Several phases now in the midfield before they go left and O\u2019Driscoll pops out a fantastic pass to Trimble who carries it over the line.Updated at 3.48pm GMT 3.14pm GMT 36 min Oh this is wonderful! It\u2019s taken quickly by Reddan and goes through the hands. O\u2019Driscoll and Trimble are the men to make the most headway and before you can say \u201cOh eff\u201d they\u2019re up to within 10m of the Italian line. 3.13pm GMT 35 min and this is bad for Italy as Derbyshire goes off and the massive Vosawai comes on. Italy win the lineout and look to batter the Irish defence on the 22, but defence is solid and it\u2019s a penalty for holding on. 3.11pm GMT 34 min Ireland are under huge pressure at the scrum and Reddan is smothered. It eventually gets back to Rob Kearney who, again under huge pressure, slices his kick into touch just beyond the 22. 3.10pm GMT 33 min McLean goes through the middle after selling an outrageous dummy just outside the 22! O\u2019Connell and Henry were made to look like chumps there. There\u2019s a very slight knock on though in the 22 by Tebaldi and the chance goes. 3.08pm GMT We\u2019re about 16m infield from the left, just inside the 22. Sexton takes his time over this... still... then thumps it through and Aerosmith urge us to walk their way over the PA. 3.06pm GMT 30 min Finally. Reddan picks up and scampers down the blindside to within inches! Ireland are held up but Bortolami comes in at the side of the ruck and we\u2019ll have a penalty. That was a cynical kill from the Italian captain and should really have been a yellow card. You could even make the argument for a penalty try. 3.05pm GMT 28 min So we\u2019ll have a scrum, which is an apropos time to look at this email from Ben on scrums: \u201cThe latest changes have shown what any experienced front row could have told you; reduce the delays in binding, put the ball in straight and show firm, consistent reffing and a few yellow cards for dragging down, and it will soon sort itself out.\u201dI\u2019d guess you were a front row, Ben? That sounds like the common sense, straight talking of a former hooker to me. Although against you, this particular scrum is taking ages. 3.02pm GMT 27 min Chance now for Ireland as Sexton\u2019s up-and-under is badly missed by Orquera. Ireland scrap for, and win, the bouncing ball but there\u2019s no advantage and we\u2019ll go back for Orquera\u2019s knock-on. 3.01pm GMT Oh my. From midfield turnover ball Italy go left and Sarto picks up a scrappy ball on the touchline. Missed tackle by Rob Kearney on Sarto, who then steps inside Dave and scampers under the posts! Orquera levels the scores.Updated at 3.19pm GMT 2.59pm GMT 23 min Turnover ball, well-won by O\u2019Connell just outside the Italian 22. Heaslip shifts it left but Ireland are held up in a maul and it\u2019s a scrum to Italy. Derbyshire has been excellent, making 12 tackles already. 2.57pm GMT 22 min BOD spots space and rolls a neat kick into it behind the Italian three quarter line. It\u2019s well covered by scrum-half Tebaldi though and from the lineout O\u2019Connell, not for the first time today, knocks on. 2.56pm GMT 20 min \u201cSo, what\u2019s the gainline?\u201d my flatmate asked me a few weeks back. Italy may as well ask the same question as they\u2019re battered back into their own 22 by Ireland. The home side get to within 10m before knocking on under little pressure. That was sloppy. 2.54pm GMT 19 min McLean clears to touch on halfway down the left. Almost a quarter of the way through the match and not a single penalty, nor a reset scrum, so far as far as I can recall. 2.53pm GMT 17 min Castrogiovanni has reportedly broken his ribs and they\u2019re missing him here as Ireland take the scrum against the head! Ireland are keeping it narrow but losing ground, so play is shifted to the flanks. It\u2019s passed back inside before Reddan switches back to the right and chips across for Trimble, but overcooks it into touch. 2.51pm GMT 16 min Here come Ireland again, with Rob K showing great strength to burst through one tackle and into the 22, straight down the middle. POC tries to carry it on but loses the ball forwards. Another injury though as Conor Murray limps off and Eoin Reddan comes on. 2.49pm GMT 14 min Sexton on the loop again makes a break down the right and the move is carried on by Heaslip. He\u2019s dragged down but offloads well to Trimble, the Ulsterman cutting inside off his wing and gets into the 22. Lovely offloading from Ireland here but they crucially can\u2019t get it away off the floor and Italy\u2019s defence scrambles back. It goes left but is knocked on the 22 and from the scrum Italy clear. 2.47pm GMT 12 min Italy still have possession around the Irish 10m line in the middle of the park and they\u2019re rumbling forwards rather effectively now. Esposito makes a half break and suddenly they\u2019re within 10m, but it\u2019s dropped and Rob Kearney belts it all the way downfield. 2.45pm GMT 11 min It\u2019s a scrappy lineout but Ireland eventually kick clear. Italy run it back and on halfway McLean thinks he\u2019s seen a gap. It proves a mirage though as he\u2019s stopped in his tracks.\u201cWatch the replay again,\u201d instructs Will Corcoran. \u201cSexton copped a shoulder in the head.\u201dHmm didn\u2019t see that. 2.43pm GMT 9 min Cian Healy knocks on and Italy go down the short side, Sarto trying to wriggle through and proving slippery. Eventually Heaslip hangs on to him but Italy spread it to the right flank, where Campagnaro is dragged into touch on the 22. 2.42pm GMT 8 min Castrogiovanni is down and won\u2019t be able to continue, so Cittadini comes on earlier than he would have expected. Now Toner steals a lineout for Ireland on his own 10m line and Ireland send it wide, Dave Kearney looking to step through. 2.40pm GMT From right in front it\u2019s easy enough. Sexton, getting up after sliding over, was slightly bumped by one of the Italians and promptly went down like one of those footballers they have now. That was poor. 2.39pm GMT There we go. From a solid scrum 35m out the ball is passed out to O\u2019Driscoll who slipped it nicely inside to Sexton on the loop. The fly-half turns on the gas to go over.Updated at 3.18pm GMT 2.37pm GMT 6 min 20 phases and about zero metres gained. Connor Murray then throws a short pass on to Orquera\u2019s fingertips, but the fly half can\u2019t hold on to the interception. A few phases previously, Orquera put in a mighty tackle on Gordon D\u2019Arcy. 2.36pm GMT 4 min Ireland going through the phases here but being held up on the Italian 10m line. Italy\u2019s replacement forwards holding out in the early exchanges, but it feels like a matter of time. Paul Derbyshire, whose name sounds less like that of a fearsome Italian flanker and more like a journeyman striker who would have played for Blackburn Rovers circa 1995, looks impressive. 2.35pm GMT 3 min Hope for Italy? Not according to Ben: \u201cIreland to hand out a walloping today, I think. Italy lucked out last year as they occasionally do, that\u2019s all.Perhaps we should have a new trophy, the \u201cBest of the Rest\u201d to be played fir between those perennial tackle dummies, Italy and Scotland? Said trophy to be awarded in perpetuity in the unlikely event of either team ever qualifying from the pool stages of RWC.\u201dA little patronising that last suggestion, but I get where you\u2019re coming from.Updated at 2.35pm GMT 2.34pm GMT 2 min Apologies, it\u2019s an Irish lineout. Which is taken in my Toner and mauled upfield. The ball is spread very wide very quickly and Rob Kearney kicks ahead. McClean returns to the exact same spot from whence it came though. Which is halfway, on the Italian right. 2.32pm GMT 1 min Nigel Owens blows his whistle and Orquera kicks off from left to right for Italy. It\u2019s taken in on the 22 and Ireland immediately go wide and run it up to the 10m line. It\u2019s recycled and Sexton slices an up-and-under badly. The ball bobbles into touch and Italy have a lineout on the left, just outside the 22. 2.27pm GMT A big win for Ireland v Italy today and the 6 Nations' title is their's to lose. 2.26pm GMT Asks Carlo Del Fava if he\n\never thought he could succeed despite not being a \u201clooker\u201d\n can see a way for Italy to win this. Remarkably, Carlo doesn\u2019t laugh at the notion but says Italy will win if they \u201cstick to their structures\u201d.Expect said structures to be in rubble within about ten minutes. 2.09pm GMT Northampton are ten minutes or so from beating salary cap-fans Saracens for the third time this season. Back in a minute, I\u2019m off to feel smug. 2.08pm GMT Of course the reason for that song is, presumably, because this will be BOD\u2019s final international home game. With the 2015 World Cup just around the corner, picking him is pretty much pandering to his ego at the possible expense of long-term planning. Still, if anyone\u2019s earned that... 2.03pm GMT This, from Corrigan Brothers Music, is a thing that\u2019s actually been written. I may have been hasty in picking East India Youth for today\u2019s musical interlude...Now BOD is his name, and it has to bea player of such graceas we were faced with him in all of his glorywho will replace him is the only question And yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeLook at BODs faceand all his desireto play with such passionand light up the fireof Ireland\u2019s Glorywho will replace himis the only questionAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home4 triple Crowns, And a Grand SlamThe Best in the Worldthis Irish ManOh BOD you brought gloryand we thank youCoz you were just the best oneAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home 2.00pm GMT Song of the year so far. This is a real cracker. 1.45pm GMT Ireland : 15-Rob Kearney; 14-Andrew Trimble, 13-Brian O\u2019Driscoll, 12-Gordon D\u2019Arcy, 11-Dave Kearney; 10-Jonny Sexton, 9-Conor Murray; 1-Cian Healy, 2-Rory Best, 3-Mike Ross, 4-Devin Toner, 5-Paul O\u2019Connell, 6-Iain Henderson, 7-Chris Henry, 8-Jamie HeaslipReplacements: 16-Sean Cronin, 17-Jack McGrath, 18-Martin Moore, 19-Rhys Ruddock, 20-Jordi Murphy, 21-Eoin Reddan, 22-Paddy Jackson, 23-Fergus McFaddenItaly : 15-Luke McLean; 14-Angelo Esposito, 13-Michele Campagnaro, 12-Gonzalo Garcia, 11-Leonardo Sarto; 10-Luciano Orquera, 9-Tito Tebaldi; 1-Alberto De Marchi, 2-Leonardo Ghiraldini, 3-Martin Castrogiovanni, 4-Quintin Geldenhuys, 5-Marco Bortolami, 6-Joshua Furno, 7-Paul Derbyshire, 8-Robert BarbieriReplacements: 16-Davide Giazzon, 17-Michele Rizzo, 18-Lorenzo Cittadini, 19-Antonio Pavanello, 20-Manoa Vosawai, 21-Edoardo Gori, 22-Tommy Allan, 23-Andrea Masi 1.45pm GMT Right this is a tough one. For me to write that is, rather than for either side. Ireland should win by a landslide here, whereas for Italy the word \u201ctough\u201d doesn\u2019t come close to describing the task ahead.If ever there was a match to epitomise two teams heading in opposite directions over the course of twelve months, then this is it. Italy won last year in Rome and finished a place above Ireland, but they look very much like a team going backwards rather than building on a best-ever championship finish; indeed they\u2019re heavily odds-on with the bookmakers to finish up with the wooden spoon this year. The Italian cause won\u2019t be helped by the absence of their entire first-choice back row either; any team would miss a player as good as Sergio Parisse anyway, let alone one that\u2019s not even looked like beating a decent side (Scotland don\u2019t count folks) since November.Ireland are definitely going the other way. The wooden spoon is what they avoided by the skins of their teeth last season, but this time around and under Joe Schmidt they have to be the favourites to win the competition. While Italy\u2019s back row is absent, Ireland\u2019s has been immense in this year\u2019s Six Nations and it was rather overlooked two weeks ago how well Chris Robshaw did to nullify the brilliant Peter O\u2019Mahoney. Unlike Italy they also have reliable half-backs and this might well present them with their first opportunity this year to set the backline alight rather than simply try to dictate territory.Brian O\u2019Driscoll has always struck me as a man for whom winning is absolutely everything; that the final victory is all that matters and if his own body/Warren Gatland\u2019s reputation needs to take a battering to ensure it, then so be it. As such it feels like Italy are being lined up as road kill this afternoon, a little rabbit in the path of a juggernaut; one of the other women unfortunate enough to be called Sarah Connor.Kick-off is 2.30pm. I\u2019m going with Ireland by 30 for this one.  1.45pm GMT I know we haven\u2019t kicked off yet, but Ireland have already won this one by a street and will thus take the Six Nations crown next weekend when they beat a hitherto rubbish France in Paris.Preamble ends. 1.45pm GMT Dan will be here from around 2pm. In the meantime have a read of Brendan Fanning\u2019s preview of the match:In the buildup to Saturday\u2019s Test at the Aviva Stadium a radio commentator referred to the contest as being \u201cmassive for Ireland\u201d. In reality the fixture with Italy is the least massive of the championship. For the home team the target in Dublin \u2013 which Joe Schmidt and co are doing their best to avoid articulating \u2013 is to win by a street, to tee them up for an assault on the title in Paris next weekend. If you want to talk about things massive then consider the scale of the challenge for the Italians.Hobbled by injuries in their back row, where Sergio Parisse is the most critical casualty ahead of Alessandro Zanni, Mauro Bergamasco and Francesco Minto, Italy are looking at a whole new set of circumstances to those in Rome last year, when they beat Ireland for the first time in the Six Nations. Back then Ireland were playing poorly, having been winless in the previous three games, and a freakish set of circumstances then saw them lose three backs in the opening quarter. The odds on the latter being repeated are so long as to be off the chart. As for the former, Ireland look like a different side.\u201cI think there is another level of confidence that is building in the players in how they are approaching their game and there is also some extra competition within the ranks,\u201d says the defence coach Les Kiss. \u201cWhen we look across the board at all the players we could select it\u2019s getting more and more competitive and that in itself is driving on standards even greater in our environment.\u201cThat\u2019s the nature of the beast in international level. If you look at teams around the world, the All Blacks realised that. They just keep taking that step forward, making positive steps, being innovative but being solid about what they are about. England have made some massive changes through Stuart Lancaster and are really building a solid culture and all that sort of stuff. From our respect, we are just evolving and moving into another phase where the blokes are very confident about what they are doing.\u201dRead the full article here.", "tags": ["Six Nations", "Ireland rugby union team", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby union"], "title": "Ireland v Italy: Six Nations \u2013 as it happened | Dan Lucas"},{"date": "2014-03-01T10:00:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The brash, 39-year-old Matteo Renzi is Italy's third unelected prime minister since November 2011. Mario Monti lasted 13 months, and his successor, Enrico Letta, resigned two weeks ago after less than a year in office. The generational leadership change is an opportunity. But can Italy break from its past?Short-lived Italian governments are the norm. The unending political drama reflects the competition for power and resources amid entrenched economic malaise. Chronically unable to put their economic house in order, Italian elites are again thrashing around for a solution, this time at the risk of losing democratic legitimacy.The simple statistic is that Italian public debt is 132% of GDP \u2013 and rising. The International Monetary Fund projects that the debt ratio could start falling if the government undertakes heroic belt-tightening. That means a primary budget surplus (not accounting for interest payments) rising to 5% of GDP, and possibly staying near that high level for years beyond.Such extraordinary levels of persistent austerity can fray the political fabric. They can also be economically disastrous.Austerity is to be accompanied by the elixir of structural reforms to spur growth. Even if these reforms materialise, economist Gauti Eggertsson warns that things get worse before they get better. The decline in prices needed to regain competitiveness will cause the debt burden to rise and demand to fall. Anaemic growth and deflationary conditions will follow relentlessly, and the already distressed banks could be pushed into seizure. In January 2014, annual inflation was down to 0.6% from 2.4% a year earlier.Italy has lived on the edge for four decades. Earlier on, the option existed of inflating the debt away and devaluing the exchange rate to regain a foothold in global markets. The Italian lira underwent repeated devaluations between 1973 and 1976, and the devaluation in 1992 brought the euro's precursor, the Exchange Rate Mechanism, to its knees.The euro was expected to bring new discipline. It demanded discipline because it closed the traditional vents of inflation and exchange rate depreciation. The euro \u2013 which failed to garner support in two European national referendums, and would have failed in others \u2013 enjoyed support among Italians weary of their irresponsible leaders.But, introduced in January 1999, the euro did not help. Any early signs of a new resolve vanished as the swift fall in interest rates eased the pressure.An October 2001 IMF assessment of Italy concluded: \"Growth has disappointed over the past decade \u2026 and major fiscal challenges remain.\" The report spoke of deep-rooted structural problems and \"difficult choices in streamlining public spending\". Over the succeeding years, nothing changed. The IMF's annual reports predictably repeated the same messages, to no avail. Those admonitions continue to carry an eerie relevance today.The presumption is that the looming threat of disaster will finally summon the political will and the economic patience to endure the grim years ahead, while Italy's bondholders are kept at bay by the European central bank's outright monetary transactions programme. But is Italy up to the challenge?The American scientist and author Jared Diamond has warned that crises do not always lead to renewal. Exhausted societies cannot summon the energy to respond to a new crisis. Italy is stuck producing goods that can be made more cheaply in countries where wages are low. In the OECD's 2012 Programme of International Student Assessment of 15-year-olds in maths, science and reading, Italian students lagged behind their counterparts in advanced countries. Research and development have fallen woefully behind.It is possible that Italy will thread the eye of the needle. But it is easier to foresee scenarios in which Italian growth and inflation are even weaker than now projected, and debt ratios keep rising. At what point do bondholders gratefully take the ECB's offer to repay them? If the legality of that offer is then in question \u2013 or because the ECB's purchases are \"effectively limited\" \u2013 things could get ugly.The policy choice is straightforward \u2013 to stay the course and keep fingers crossed or to take bolder action now to prevent future catastrophe.Italy can no longer tinker. A true generational change, one that harnesses aspirational energy for a brighter future, requires audacious investment in education and infrastructure. This must be paid for by new budget priorities and, importantly, by negotiating longer, Uruguay-style terms of repayment with creditors. That bargain is in everyone's interests, and is needed to keep Italy in the eurozone.As Letta left office, he sorrowfully remarked to his associates: \"It's true: Italy breaks your heart.\" The stakes are high. Italy may break more than that.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "Austerity", "World news", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro"], "title": "Matteo Renzi has to break Italy from its past| Ashoka Mody"},{"date": "2014-03-24T15:28:56Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Japan announced on Monday that it would hand over hundreds of kilogrammes of weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to the United States for dilution and disposal, at the start of a global summit aimed at reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism.Belgium and Italy also announced agreements with the US on the removal of surplus fissile material, as part of a continuing Washington-led effort to reduce global stockpiles and the number of sites around the world where they are stored.Under the agreement, Japan will ship more than 300kg of plutonium and 200kg of highly enriched uranium (HEU) from its nuclear research site. The material would be enough to build about 40 nuclear warheads.Japan's stock of weapons-grade material has been a source of friction with China, particularly after rightwing Japanese politicians suggested that it may have value as a deterrent, even though the country ruled out development of nuclear weapons in 1967.The radioactive material is only a small proportion of Japan's stock, but is in a form that would make it easy to use in a nuclear warhead.The agreement with Japan was hailed by US officials as the greatest success so far resulting from President Obama's 2009 initiative.A 2013 deadline \"to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years\" has been missed. Since 2010, when the first of three nuclear security summits was held in Washington, 10 countries have rid themselves completely of plutonium and HEU: Chile, Serbia, Turkey, Austria, Mexico, Sweden, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Vietnam. The deadline was extended with the announcement there would be a fourth summit in Washington in 2016.The two-day meeting in The Hague, involving 53 world leaders, will focus on improving security for global stocks of other radiological isotopes including cobalt 60 and caesium 137 which are used in industry, research and medicine but which could be used in a \"dirty bomb\" to irradiate a large urban area.Despite the advances made in the past four years, a former US senator, Sam Nunn, the chief executive officer of a Washington-based thinktank called the Nuclear Threat Initiative, warned in a report published before the Hague summit that \"nearly 2,000 metric [tonnes] of weapons-usable nuclear materials remain spread across hundreds of sites around the globe \u2013 some of it poorly secured\".The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Yukiya Amano, said last year there were a hundred reported thefts on nuclear and radioactive materials on average each year, although such incidents so far have involved very small quantities.\"We are going in the right direction,\" said Joe Cirincione, the head of the Ploughshares Fund, which promotes disarmament and non-proliferation initiatives. But he added: \"When you are fleeing a forest fire, however, it is not a question of direction but of speed. Can we get to safety before disaster overwhelms us? The current pace is only sporadically urgent. Worse, there is a real chance that even this co-operation will cease after the final, planned summit in 2016.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific", "Italy", "Europe", "Belgium", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "US news", "US politics", "Science"], "title": "Japan, Belgium and Italy reduce their stockpiles of nuclear material"},{"date": "2014-03-16T16:29:13Z", "country": "italy", "content": "More than 17 years since it was stolen from a gallery in northern Italy, Gustav Klimt's Portrait of a Woman is reportedly once again the subject of a police investigation after technological advances allowed for the case to be reopened.The oil painting, believed to date from 1916-1917, was stolen from the Ricci-Oddi gallery in Piacenza in February 1997 and disappeared without a trace.Now, thanks to more sophisticated testing of the frame, investigators are hoping that new test results will provide a DNA match with one or more suspects, the Italian news agency Ansa reported.In the aftermath of the theft, which appeared to be timed to coincide with renovation work in advance of which many works were removed from the gallery, police appeared flummoxed.They were unable to say whether the thief \u2013 or thieves \u2013 had come in through the main entrance or had used a string and hook to fish the painting through a nearby skylight. All that was left was an empty frame with a partial fingerprint which police now hope will yield an answer.The work, acquired by the collection in 1925, was thought to be too famous to sell on, leading some to speculate that it had been stolen to order.In it, a young woman with dark hair and rouged cheeks is shown against a green background. It is one of the most sought-after stolen works in Italy.The Austrian artist, a co-founder of the Viennese Secession, is the subject of an exhibition at the Palazzo Reale in Milan, near Piacenza.", "tags": ["Art theft", "Italy", "Gustav Klimt", "Art and design", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Gustav Klimt theft case reopens in Italy 17 years on"},{"date": "2014-03-08T16:25:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": " 4.25pm GMT That was ruthlessly efficient from Ireland and it felt like we\u2019d gone back to the tournament\u2019s embryonic days when Italy were plucky but hopelessly outclassed. O\u2019Driscoll was quite, quite brilliant today \u2013 far better than I\u2019ve seen him in a couple of years, in fact.So next weekend Ireland will go to Paris to try and take the Six Nations title. Join me again in, er, half an hour for Scotland v France. Bye for now! 4.23pm GMT 15m infield on the right, Jackson slices it wide. 4.22pm GMT The penalty was taken quickly as you\u2019d expect. We had a few phases before Jack McGrath went over from close range. 4.21pm GMT 80 min Cronin bursts through the middle then McFadden chips and gathers his own kicks. Ireland rumble up to with about 6m of the line and shift the play to under the posts. We go left and Trimble kicks through; it goes dead but we go back for a penalty. 4.20pm GMT 79 min Can you guess who was named man of the match? Go on, there\u2019s a prize on offer.**Obviously there isn\u2019t. 4.19pm GMT Ireland trying to stretch the Italian defensive line now. They go right and left, and then infield to Fergus McFadden who steps through then dives over under the posts from close range. Jackson drop kicks the conversion. 4.17pm GMT 76 min That\u2019s a beauty of a penalty from Jackson, kicked from around halfway in the centre of the park right on to the Italian 5m line on the left. The cheering every time BOD appears on the big screen is getting a bit sycophantic now. 4.16pm GMT 75 min Ireland are looking to run and pass everything at the moment and it\u2019s not quite coming off. You get the feeling that if they\u2019d kept things a little simpler as they did earlier on then they might have racked up a cricket score. Although 34-7 isn\u2019t unlike an England cricket score, I suppose. 4.14pm GMT 73 min This is petering out now. Why not keep up with what\u2019s happening in the football world by popping by Gregg Bakowski\u2019s clockwatch? 4.12pm GMT 72 min A rare attacking platform for Italy as they have a scrum just outside the 22. They go right and turn it over, but will get another chance as D\u2019Arcy fires an absurdly wide pass forwards. 4.11pm GMT 71 min Gori is on at scrum half for Italy, with bleached blonde hair reminiscent of a Romanian footballer circa France 98. 4.09pm GMT Rifled through from the touchline. Very nice. 4.08pm GMT Ireland nearly blow the chance as Henry holds on and goes for the line himself with the Kearneys outside of him on the overlap. The ball is stolen brilliantly but Ruddock wins it again and the ball squirts out to Cronin, who shows good pace to go around and into the left-hand corner. 4.06pm GMT 67 min Italy are offside at a ruck in the 22 and Jackson knocks it into the corner on the right. 4.05pm GMT 66 min Ireland getting it wide again before Kearney batters into the defence, knocking them backwards. Ireland owning the gainline in midfield now. 4.03pm GMT 65 min Sexton is off too, with Paddy Jackson on. Ireland have taken off their most creative player for the day as well as the man who\u2019s scored 17 of their points. Have they declared here? Italy are looking tired so fresh legs could hurt them. 4.01pm GMT 64 min Kearney runs down the left and chips ahead, but it goes out of play on the full. 4.01pm GMT 61 min The great player\u2019s days in the Irish jersey on home soil are done as he goes off to be replaced by... no one cares by whom. This has been a vintage latter-day BOD performance, creating three tries with gossamer hands. He gets a standing ovation and will have received few better deserved.(It was McFadden who came on) 3.59pm GMT Right on the left touchline this one and it\u2019s just wide. 3.58pm GMT This O\u2019Driscoll fella is alright, isn\u2019t he? He makes a half-break inside the 22 on the left then throws a wonderful offload out of the tackle and out the back of the hand to Kearney (R), who passes out to his brother, who pops it inside for Sexton to go over in the corner for his second. That was utterly magnificent. 3.55pm GMT 58 min \u201cAnything you can do...\u201d begin Italy, before realising they\u2019re not actually as good as Ireland and much chucking it about results in the ball being handed back to Ireland. BOD makes a break before realising he can\u2019t make it and cutting back across the field to look for support. He gets smashed in a tackle and stays down, but I think he\u2019s only winded. Yes, O\u2019Driscoll gets back to his feet and receives the biggest cheer of the day. 3.52pm GMT 57 min Cronin knocks on as Ireland look to go through the hands again. Ireland forgetting, it seems that their tries have all come indirectly from set pieces.Ross off, Moore on.Derbyshire off, Vosowai on. De Marchi also replaced by Rizzo. 3.51pm GMT 56 min Ireland smell blood as Kearney runs with extreme intent upon fielding a long, aimless kick from McLean. It\u2019s chipped ahead and Italy clear but Dave K runs it back down the left touchline. Knocked on in the 22 though. 3.49pm GMT Healy hurt himself scoring that and goes off to be replaced by McGrath and Ruddock replaces Henderson. Sexton lines up the conversion wide on the right but drags it across goal.Best off too, Cronin on. 3.48pm GMT Quickly taken tap by Reddan once again keeps Italy backpeddling and Healy muscles his way over from a couple of metres. 3.47pm GMT 52 min Slow ball for Ireland in the centre, just inside the 22. It goes left and Sexton passes inside to Heaslip before O\u2019Connell makes ground. Through the hands and right now and Italy concede a penalty on the floor 5m out. 3.45pm GMT 50 min Poor clearance from Italy with their scrum under pressure and Ireland have another lineout in the 22. Here\u2019s how our very own Paul Doyle feels about Ireland\u2019s attacking efforts:Sigh 3.44pm GMT 49 min The penalty is from where the game was due to be restarted with a scrum. Nigel Owens is a quite outstanding ref. It\u2019s kickable but Sexton kicks to the corner on the right and Italy do very well to splinter the maul. Ireland go again but are held up and Italy will get the scrum 5m from their own line. 3.42pm GMT 48 min Fight! Fight! Fight! It\u2019s quite a mild one, as you\u2019d expect from the diminutive Tebaldi standing up to Paul O\u2019Connell. We\u2019re going to check there was nothing sinister but I think it\u2019s just a scuffle. Yes it was a scuffle between O\u2019Connell and Bortolami, then Tebaldi came in and grabbed the Irish captain around the neck and is penalised for it. 3.39pm GMT 47 min Good kick from Sexton to touch on the right, a couple of metres outside the 22. Good chance this and they go off the top, but Furno disrupts the move by going for the interception and knocking on. 3.38pm GMT 45 min Tebaldi sends up a high kick, which Kearney does very well to win from Derbyshire. Ireland turn it over in midfield again though and the dangerous McLean is probing. He holds on though and it\u2019s a penalty to Ireland just inside their own half. 3.36pm GMT 43 min I\u2019ll take my winnings. O\u2019Driscoll gets the ball and chips ahead into the 22, but Sexton was in front of the kicker and we go back for an Italian penalty in the centre of the field, which Orquera kicks to touch on the left, on the Ireland 10m line. Orquera looks a much better 10 than Tomasso \u201cTommy\u201d Allan. 3.34pm GMT 42 min What a maul from Ireland, who go 20m upfield and win a penalty. Sexton, with no room to work with on the right, sends it up to just outside the Italian 22. Another maul coming, I\u2019ll wager. 3.33pm GMT 41 min Here we go. Dave Kearney spills a high ball and Orquera sends a lovely raking kick into space, and indeed into touch, down the right inside the Ireland 22 behind D\u2019Arcy. 3.32pm GMT @DanLucas86 maybe - think D'Arcy has benefitted more from BOD's longevity than he has. Oh, hang on - was that ANOTHER try scoring pass..? 3.30pm GMT How long can Italy keep up this resolute, physical defence against a very fit and relentless Ireland side? 3.20pm GMT That was enthralling. Very few set pieces, ambitious attacking rugby with no shortage of skill being met by firm defence \u2013 and that from both sides. I\u2019ll see you in 10mins or so. 3.19pm GMT 40 min Derbyshire is back on for Voswai now. And that\u2019s that for a brilliant first half of rugby. 3.18pm GMT The try was scored wide on the left, so that\u2019s where the conversion will be taken, as per the laws of the game. No matter for Sexton though, who knocks it over coolly. 3.17pm GMT Crikey this is ridiculous. Ireland come flying at the line time and again but it\u2019s brilliant defence from Italy and they\u2019ve won a turnover! Sarto spies a gap and is this close to being away, but it\u2019s knocked on and Ireland come again through BOD. Several phases now in the midfield before they go left and O\u2019Driscoll pops out a fantastic pass to Trimble who carries it over the line.Updated at 3.48pm GMT 3.14pm GMT 36 min Oh this is wonderful! It\u2019s taken quickly by Reddan and goes through the hands. O\u2019Driscoll and Trimble are the men to make the most headway and before you can say \u201cOh eff\u201d they\u2019re up to within 10m of the Italian line. 3.13pm GMT 35 min and this is bad for Italy as Derbyshire goes off and the massive Vosawai comes on. Italy win the lineout and look to batter the Irish defence on the 22, but defence is solid and it\u2019s a penalty for holding on. 3.11pm GMT 34 min Ireland are under huge pressure at the scrum and Reddan is smothered. It eventually gets back to Rob Kearney who, again under huge pressure, slices his kick into touch just beyond the 22. 3.10pm GMT 33 min McLean goes through the middle after selling an outrageous dummy just outside the 22! O\u2019Connell and Henry were made to look like chumps there. There\u2019s a very slight knock on though in the 22 by Tebaldi and the chance goes. 3.08pm GMT We\u2019re about 16m infield from the left, just inside the 22. Sexton takes his time over this... still... then thumps it through and Aerosmith urge us to walk their way over the PA. 3.06pm GMT 30 min Finally. Reddan picks up and scampers down the blindside to within inches! Ireland are held up but Bortolami comes in at the side of the ruck and we\u2019ll have a penalty. That was a cynical kill from the Italian captain and should really have been a yellow card. You could even make the argument for a penalty try. 3.05pm GMT 28 min So we\u2019ll have a scrum, which is an apropos time to look at this email from Ben on scrums: \u201cThe latest changes have shown what any experienced front row could have told you; reduce the delays in binding, put the ball in straight and show firm, consistent reffing and a few yellow cards for dragging down, and it will soon sort itself out.\u201dI\u2019d guess you were a front row, Ben? That sounds like the common sense, straight talking of a former hooker to me. Although against you, this particular scrum is taking ages. 3.02pm GMT 27 min Chance now for Ireland as Sexton\u2019s up-and-under is badly missed by Orquera. Ireland scrap for, and win, the bouncing ball but there\u2019s no advantage and we\u2019ll go back for Orquera\u2019s knock-on. 3.01pm GMT Oh my. From midfield turnover ball Italy go left and Sarto picks up a scrappy ball on the touchline. Missed tackle by Rob Kearney on Sarto, who then steps inside Dave and scampers under the posts! Orquera levels the scores.Updated at 3.19pm GMT 2.59pm GMT 23 min Turnover ball, well-won by O\u2019Connell just outside the Italian 22. Heaslip shifts it left but Ireland are held up in a maul and it\u2019s a scrum to Italy. Derbyshire has been excellent, making 12 tackles already. 2.57pm GMT 22 min BOD spots space and rolls a neat kick into it behind the Italian three quarter line. It\u2019s well covered by scrum-half Tebaldi though and from the lineout O\u2019Connell, not for the first time today, knocks on. 2.56pm GMT 20 min \u201cSo, what\u2019s the gainline?\u201d my flatmate asked me a few weeks back. Italy may as well ask the same question as they\u2019re battered back into their own 22 by Ireland. The home side get to within 10m before knocking on under little pressure. That was sloppy. 2.54pm GMT 19 min McLean clears to touch on halfway down the left. Almost a quarter of the way through the match and not a single penalty, nor a reset scrum, so far as far as I can recall. 2.53pm GMT 17 min Castrogiovanni has reportedly broken his ribs and they\u2019re missing him here as Ireland take the scrum against the head! Ireland are keeping it narrow but losing ground, so play is shifted to the flanks. It\u2019s passed back inside before Reddan switches back to the right and chips across for Trimble, but overcooks it into touch. 2.51pm GMT 16 min Here come Ireland again, with Rob K showing great strength to burst through one tackle and into the 22, straight down the middle. POC tries to carry it on but loses the ball forwards. Another injury though as Conor Murray limps off and Eoin Reddan comes on. 2.49pm GMT 14 min Sexton on the loop again makes a break down the right and the move is carried on by Heaslip. He\u2019s dragged down but offloads well to Trimble, the Ulsterman cutting inside off his wing and gets into the 22. Lovely offloading from Ireland here but they crucially can\u2019t get it away off the floor and Italy\u2019s defence scrambles back. It goes left but is knocked on the 22 and from the scrum Italy clear. 2.47pm GMT 12 min Italy still have possession around the Irish 10m line in the middle of the park and they\u2019re rumbling forwards rather effectively now. Esposito makes a half break and suddenly they\u2019re within 10m, but it\u2019s dropped and Rob Kearney belts it all the way downfield. 2.45pm GMT 11 min It\u2019s a scrappy lineout but Ireland eventually kick clear. Italy run it back and on halfway McLean thinks he\u2019s seen a gap. It proves a mirage though as he\u2019s stopped in his tracks.\u201cWatch the replay again,\u201d instructs Will Corcoran. \u201cSexton copped a shoulder in the head.\u201dHmm didn\u2019t see that. 2.43pm GMT 9 min Cian Healy knocks on and Italy go down the short side, Sarto trying to wriggle through and proving slippery. Eventually Heaslip hangs on to him but Italy spread it to the right flank, where Campagnaro is dragged into touch on the 22. 2.42pm GMT 8 min Castrogiovanni is down and won\u2019t be able to continue, so Cittadini comes on earlier than he would have expected. Now Toner steals a lineout for Ireland on his own 10m line and Ireland send it wide, Dave Kearney looking to step through. 2.40pm GMT From right in front it\u2019s easy enough. Sexton, getting up after sliding over, was slightly bumped by one of the Italians and promptly went down like one of those footballers they have now. That was poor. 2.39pm GMT There we go. From a solid scrum 35m out the ball is passed out to O\u2019Driscoll who slipped it nicely inside to Sexton on the loop. The fly-half turns on the gas to go over.Updated at 3.18pm GMT 2.37pm GMT 6 min 20 phases and about zero metres gained. Connor Murray then throws a short pass on to Orquera\u2019s fingertips, but the fly half can\u2019t hold on to the interception. A few phases previously, Orquera put in a mighty tackle on Gordon D\u2019Arcy. 2.36pm GMT 4 min Ireland going through the phases here but being held up on the Italian 10m line. Italy\u2019s replacement forwards holding out in the early exchanges, but it feels like a matter of time. Paul Derbyshire, whose name sounds less like that of a fearsome Italian flanker and more like a journeyman striker who would have played for Blackburn Rovers circa 1995, looks impressive. 2.35pm GMT 3 min Hope for Italy? Not according to Ben: \u201cIreland to hand out a walloping today, I think. Italy lucked out last year as they occasionally do, that\u2019s all.Perhaps we should have a new trophy, the \u201cBest of the Rest\u201d to be played fir between those perennial tackle dummies, Italy and Scotland? Said trophy to be awarded in perpetuity in the unlikely event of either team ever qualifying from the pool stages of RWC.\u201dA little patronising that last suggestion, but I get where you\u2019re coming from.Updated at 2.35pm GMT 2.34pm GMT 2 min Apologies, it\u2019s an Irish lineout. Which is taken in my Toner and mauled upfield. The ball is spread very wide very quickly and Rob Kearney kicks ahead. McClean returns to the exact same spot from whence it came though. Which is halfway, on the Italian right. 2.32pm GMT 1 min Nigel Owens blows his whistle and Orquera kicks off from left to right for Italy. It\u2019s taken in on the 22 and Ireland immediately go wide and run it up to the 10m line. It\u2019s recycled and Sexton slices an up-and-under badly. The ball bobbles into touch and Italy have a lineout on the left, just outside the 22. 2.27pm GMT A big win for Ireland v Italy today and the 6 Nations' title is their's to lose. 2.26pm GMT Asks Carlo Del Fava if he\n\never thought he could succeed despite not being a \u201clooker\u201d\n can see a way for Italy to win this. Remarkably, Carlo doesn\u2019t laugh at the notion but says Italy will win if they \u201cstick to their structures\u201d.Expect said structures to be in rubble within about ten minutes. 2.09pm GMT Northampton are ten minutes or so from beating salary cap-fans Saracens for the third time this season. Back in a minute, I\u2019m off to feel smug. 2.08pm GMT Of course the reason for that song is, presumably, because this will be BOD\u2019s final international home game. With the 2015 World Cup just around the corner, picking him is pretty much pandering to his ego at the possible expense of long-term planning. Still, if anyone\u2019s earned that... 2.03pm GMT This, from Corrigan Brothers Music, is a thing that\u2019s actually been written. I may have been hasty in picking East India Youth for today\u2019s musical interlude...Now BOD is his name, and it has to bea player of such graceas we were faced with him in all of his glorywho will replace him is the only question And yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeLook at BODs faceand all his desireto play with such passionand light up the fireof Ireland\u2019s Glorywho will replace himis the only questionAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home4 triple Crowns, And a Grand SlamThe Best in the Worldthis Irish ManOh BOD you brought gloryand we thank youCoz you were just the best oneAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at HomeAnd yeah yeah BOD is great yeah yeah BOD is goodyeah yeah yeah yeah yeahNow that BOD is gone from USHe\u2019ll be missed by all of USAll the things he\u2019s done for UsIn games Away and games at Home 2.00pm GMT Song of the year so far. This is a real cracker. 1.45pm GMT Ireland : 15-Rob Kearney; 14-Andrew Trimble, 13-Brian O\u2019Driscoll, 12-Gordon D\u2019Arcy, 11-Dave Kearney; 10-Jonny Sexton, 9-Conor Murray; 1-Cian Healy, 2-Rory Best, 3-Mike Ross, 4-Devin Toner, 5-Paul O\u2019Connell, 6-Iain Henderson, 7-Chris Henry, 8-Jamie HeaslipReplacements: 16-Sean Cronin, 17-Jack McGrath, 18-Martin Moore, 19-Rhys Ruddock, 20-Jordi Murphy, 21-Eoin Reddan, 22-Paddy Jackson, 23-Fergus McFaddenItaly : 15-Luke McLean; 14-Angelo Esposito, 13-Michele Campagnaro, 12-Gonzalo Garcia, 11-Leonardo Sarto; 10-Luciano Orquera, 9-Tito Tebaldi; 1-Alberto De Marchi, 2-Leonardo Ghiraldini, 3-Martin Castrogiovanni, 4-Quintin Geldenhuys, 5-Marco Bortolami, 6-Joshua Furno, 7-Paul Derbyshire, 8-Robert BarbieriReplacements: 16-Davide Giazzon, 17-Michele Rizzo, 18-Lorenzo Cittadini, 19-Antonio Pavanello, 20-Manoa Vosawai, 21-Edoardo Gori, 22-Tommy Allan, 23-Andrea Masi 1.45pm GMT Right this is a tough one. For me to write that is, rather than for either side. Ireland should win by a landslide here, whereas for Italy the word \u201ctough\u201d doesn\u2019t come close to describing the task ahead.If ever there was a match to epitomise two teams heading in opposite directions over the course of twelve months, then this is it. Italy won last year in Rome and finished a place above Ireland, but they look very much like a team going backwards rather than building on a best-ever championship finish; indeed they\u2019re heavily odds-on with the bookmakers to finish up with the wooden spoon this year. The Italian cause won\u2019t be helped by the absence of their entire first-choice back row either; any team would miss a player as good as Sergio Parisse anyway, let alone one that\u2019s not even looked like beating a decent side (Scotland don\u2019t count folks) since November.Ireland are definitely going the other way. The wooden spoon is what they avoided by the skins of their teeth last season, but this time around and under Joe Schmidt they have to be the favourites to win the competition. While Italy\u2019s back row is absent, Ireland\u2019s has been immense in this year\u2019s Six Nations and it was rather overlooked two weeks ago how well Chris Robshaw did to nullify the brilliant Peter O\u2019Mahoney. Unlike Italy they also have reliable half-backs and this might well present them with their first opportunity this year to set the backline alight rather than simply try to dictate territory.Brian O\u2019Driscoll has always struck me as a man for whom winning is absolutely everything; that the final victory is all that matters and if his own body/Warren Gatland\u2019s reputation needs to take a battering to ensure it, then so be it. As such it feels like Italy are being lined up as road kill this afternoon, a little rabbit in the path of a juggernaut; one of the other women unfortunate enough to be called Sarah Connor.Kick-off is 2.30pm. I\u2019m going with Ireland by 30 for this one.  1.45pm GMT I know we haven\u2019t kicked off yet, but Ireland have already won this one by a street and will thus take the Six Nations crown next weekend when they beat a hitherto rubbish France in Paris.Preamble ends. 1.45pm GMT Dan will be here from around 2pm. In the meantime have a read of Brendan Fanning\u2019s preview of the match:In the buildup to Saturday\u2019s Test at the Aviva Stadium a radio commentator referred to the contest as being \u201cmassive for Ireland\u201d. In reality the fixture with Italy is the least massive of the championship. For the home team the target in Dublin \u2013 which Joe Schmidt and co are doing their best to avoid articulating \u2013 is to win by a street, to tee them up for an assault on the title in Paris next weekend. If you want to talk about things massive then consider the scale of the challenge for the Italians.Hobbled by injuries in their back row, where Sergio Parisse is the most critical casualty ahead of Alessandro Zanni, Mauro Bergamasco and Francesco Minto, Italy are looking at a whole new set of circumstances to those in Rome last year, when they beat Ireland for the first time in the Six Nations. Back then Ireland were playing poorly, having been winless in the previous three games, and a freakish set of circumstances then saw them lose three backs in the opening quarter. The odds on the latter being repeated are so long as to be off the chart. As for the former, Ireland look like a different side.\u201cI think there is another level of confidence that is building in the players in how they are approaching their game and there is also some extra competition within the ranks,\u201d says the defence coach Les Kiss. \u201cWhen we look across the board at all the players we could select it\u2019s getting more and more competitive and that in itself is driving on standards even greater in our environment.\u201cThat\u2019s the nature of the beast in international level. If you look at teams around the world, the All Blacks realised that. They just keep taking that step forward, making positive steps, being innovative but being solid about what they are about. England have made some massive changes through Stuart Lancaster and are really building a solid culture and all that sort of stuff. From our respect, we are just evolving and moving into another phase where the blokes are very confident about what they are doing.\u201dRead the full article here.", "tags": ["Six Nations", "Ireland rugby union team", "Italy rugby union team", "Rugby union"], "title": "Ireland v Italy: Six Nations \u2013 as it happened | Dan Lucas"},{"date": "2014-03-01T10:00:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The brash, 39-year-old Matteo Renzi is Italy's third unelected prime minister since November 2011. Mario Monti lasted 13 months, and his successor, Enrico Letta, resigned two weeks ago after less than a year in office. The generational leadership change is an opportunity. But can Italy break from its past?Short-lived Italian governments are the norm. The unending political drama reflects the competition for power and resources amid entrenched economic malaise. Chronically unable to put their economic house in order, Italian elites are again thrashing around for a solution, this time at the risk of losing democratic legitimacy.The simple statistic is that Italian public debt is 132% of GDP \u2013 and rising. The International Monetary Fund projects that the debt ratio could start falling if the government undertakes heroic belt-tightening. That means a primary budget surplus (not accounting for interest payments) rising to 5% of GDP, and possibly staying near that high level for years beyond.Such extraordinary levels of persistent austerity can fray the political fabric. They can also be economically disastrous.Austerity is to be accompanied by the elixir of structural reforms to spur growth. Even if these reforms materialise, economist Gauti Eggertsson warns that things get worse before they get better. The decline in prices needed to regain competitiveness will cause the debt burden to rise and demand to fall. Anaemic growth and deflationary conditions will follow relentlessly, and the already distressed banks could be pushed into seizure. In January 2014, annual inflation was down to 0.6% from 2.4% a year earlier.Italy has lived on the edge for four decades. Earlier on, the option existed of inflating the debt away and devaluing the exchange rate to regain a foothold in global markets. The Italian lira underwent repeated devaluations between 1973 and 1976, and the devaluation in 1992 brought the euro's precursor, the Exchange Rate Mechanism, to its knees.The euro was expected to bring new discipline. It demanded discipline because it closed the traditional vents of inflation and exchange rate depreciation. The euro \u2013 which failed to garner support in two European national referendums, and would have failed in others \u2013 enjoyed support among Italians weary of their irresponsible leaders.But, introduced in January 1999, the euro did not help. Any early signs of a new resolve vanished as the swift fall in interest rates eased the pressure.An October 2001 IMF assessment of Italy concluded: \"Growth has disappointed over the past decade \u2026 and major fiscal challenges remain.\" The report spoke of deep-rooted structural problems and \"difficult choices in streamlining public spending\". Over the succeeding years, nothing changed. The IMF's annual reports predictably repeated the same messages, to no avail. Those admonitions continue to carry an eerie relevance today.The presumption is that the looming threat of disaster will finally summon the political will and the economic patience to endure the grim years ahead, while Italy's bondholders are kept at bay by the European central bank's outright monetary transactions programme. But is Italy up to the challenge?The American scientist and author Jared Diamond has warned that crises do not always lead to renewal. Exhausted societies cannot summon the energy to respond to a new crisis. Italy is stuck producing goods that can be made more cheaply in countries where wages are low. In the OECD's 2012 Programme of International Student Assessment of 15-year-olds in maths, science and reading, Italian students lagged behind their counterparts in advanced countries. Research and development have fallen woefully behind.It is possible that Italy will thread the eye of the needle. But it is easier to foresee scenarios in which Italian growth and inflation are even weaker than now projected, and debt ratios keep rising. At what point do bondholders gratefully take the ECB's offer to repay them? If the legality of that offer is then in question \u2013 or because the ECB's purchases are \"effectively limited\" \u2013 things could get ugly.The policy choice is straightforward \u2013 to stay the course and keep fingers crossed or to take bolder action now to prevent future catastrophe.Italy can no longer tinker. A true generational change, one that harnesses aspirational energy for a brighter future, requires audacious investment in education and infrastructure. This must be paid for by new budget priorities and, importantly, by negotiating longer, Uruguay-style terms of repayment with creditors. That bargain is in everyone's interests, and is needed to keep Italy in the eurozone.As Letta left office, he sorrowfully remarked to his associates: \"It's true: Italy breaks your heart.\" The stakes are high. Italy may break more than that.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "Austerity", "World news", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro"], "title": "Matteo Renzi has to break Italy from its past| Ashoka Mody"},{"date": "2014-02-28T18:44:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Decadent and in decline, its beauty imperilled by physical and moral decay, the Rome portrayed in Paolo Sorrentino's film La Grande Bellezza could end up giving Italy a yearned-for win at the Oscars on Sunday night. But off-screen and far from the glitz of Hollywood, the financial troubles of the eternal city \u2013 and the daily trials of its long-suffering residents \u2013 are no cause for celebration.On Friday, at the end of a week which saw the spectre of bankruptcy loom large over the ancient capital, the Italian government said it had approved a last-minute decree that would give an urgently-needed injection of funds to the city, thus staving off imminent disaster.While not detailing the new plans, cabinet undersecretary Graziano Delrio said the sum to be transferred to the municipality \"remains the same\" \u2013 around \u20ac500m \u2013 as had been envisaged under a previous decree ditched earlier in the week by the government.Nicknamed \"Save Rome\", that decree had become so bogged down in a verbose and venomous parliamentary process that Matteo Renzi's new administration withdrew it and said it would find a new way of helping the Rome authorities plug an \u20ac816m hole in their budget.The decision prompted thinly-veiled hilarity among some in the opposition, with one MP for the rightwing, regionalist Northern League suggesting the best thing for the city would be a takeover by a special commissioner in the mould of hated emperor Nero, who fiddled while Rome burned. But on the Capitoline hill, where mayor Ignazio Marino is based, the decision sparked rage. In a furious outburst, the transplant surgeon-turned-centre-left politician said the capital risked a shutdown of public services as soon as next week if a replacement decree was not passed immediately.Making it clear he would resign rather than implement swingeing cuts and mass lay-offs, he even said that plans for the canonisations of popes John Paul II and John XXIII in April would be put at risk if a transfer of funds was not guaranteed.\"I promised Pope Francis, in a personal meeting with him, that I would take care to prepare everything,\" Marino was quoted as saying.\"If there aren't the conditions in which to do so, I will tell the government that there aren't the conditions in which I can be mayor.\"His comments set him on a collision course with Renzi, Italy's new prime minister. On the front of Friday's Corriere della Sera, the two Democratic Party politicians were depicted as Romulus and Remus suckling on the she-wolf of Rome's founding myth. \"There is no more latte [milk]!\" says the unhappy mayor of Rome. \"There is no more Letta!\" replies Renzi \u2013 a reference to his recently-ousted predecessor. \"And I am from Florence!\"The new decree appeared enough to ease tensions between the two men, but it will take a lot more to soothe the many dissatisfied citizens of the Italian capital who are indignant following years of parlous finances and bad government.\"You want to bring the city to a standstill and have not realised that the city is already at a standstill,\" wrote one commentator, Rome-born Marco Sarti, in an open letter to the mayor published on news site Linkiesta in which he cited the capital's potholed roads, its \"embarrassing\" underground rail network and its general air of \"degradation and filth\".Il Messaggero, the Rome-based daily newspaper, joined in the chorus of complaint, presenting a picture gallery, \"somewhere between neo-realism and the aesthetic of pain\", of what it said were postcards showing contemporary Rome's decline: damaged roads, debt-laden transport body Atac, an opera house that just this week flirted with industrial action, and pigs rifling through overflowing rubbish on the streets.Marino, who was elected last year following the harshly criticised term in office of centre-right politician Gianni Alemanno, has insisted his administration was saddled with huge financial problems but is making progress nonetheless. He has turned the road around the Colosseum into a partially-pedestrianised area and has closed a highly controversial landfill site.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Matteo Renzi", "Pope Francis"], "title": "Rome spared bankruptcy as Italy approves \u20ac500m rescue"},{"date": "2014-06-30T19:22:19Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A 14-year-old British boy has died in an accident while on an adventure holiday with the Scouts in northern Italy.Elliot Peacock lost consciousness after jumping into water in Gran Paradiso national park in the Italian Alps, according to the activity organisers. Instructors rescued him from the water but were unable to resuscitate him.His parents, Collette and Scott, from Newton Mearns, East Renfrewshire, have flown to Italy where police are investigating the accident, which happened on Sunday afternoon.Elliot, a member of the Pegasus Explorer Scout unit linked to the 35th Glasgow Scout group, was with a group of about 40 Scouts organised by outdoor education provider Acorn Adventure, which said they were gorge scrambling. \"It is a low-level combined water and rock activity that involves walking up and down a river gorge and jumping into pools. It is controlled by fully trained and assessed instructors and all participants are equipped with helmets, buoyancy aids, full wetsuits and footwear,\" the company said.Its statement added: \"On this particular occasion, the group were jumping from a height of approximately 60cm into the water, where instructors were waiting for them as is normal. Water conditions were optimum for the activity and the weather was warm and sunny. As [Elliot] entered the water for the second time, it was obvious to the instructors that something was wrong, so they rescued him from the water immediately.\" Attempts to resuscitate him by first aiders, nurses and air ambulance staff were unsuccessful.The reason for his loss of consciousness remained unexplained, the company statement said.\"Staff have since returned to the site with the police investigating the incident and it is now understood that there was no impact with a rock.\"Andrew Gardiner, the company's managing director, said, \"We are all profoundly saddened by this tragic incident and our thoughts are with the family and friends of the boy. Our priority is to ensure we do all we can to help them by working with the various organisations involved to understand how this happened. The rest of the group are supporting each other and showing great maturity. They are a great credit to their Scout group and their parents.\"Acorn said hundreds of people had done this activity with the company at the same spot over the past five years. iIt said it was working with Italian emergency services and the UK Foreign Office \"to handle the practicalities swiftly and sensitively\".\"Senior operations staff and a trauma counsellor had travelled to Italy to provide all possible support.\"The Scout Association said it was \"devastated\" by the incident and was supporting Elliot's parents, other scouts and their trip leaders.\"We will continue to work with Acorn Adventure \u2026 to establish if there are any lessons to learn from this tragic incident.\"A Foreign Office spokesman said: \"We are aware of the death of a British national in Italy and we stand ready to provide consular assistance.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Scouts and scouting"], "title": "Scout dies on adventure holiday in Italy"},{"date": "2014-07-15T13:01:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday morning and I'm driving my son to Bologna airport for his flight to Valencia. I drop him at departures and head for a car park. A car draws along side, the driver waves at me. I put my window down and he greets me by name. I look at him blankly. He laughs and suggests we pull in. I nod and have no sooner turned off the engine than he's there leaning with both hands on my door grinning through the open window: \"Don't you remember me?\" Not really.He says my name again and cocks his head in various poses to help jog my memory. I apologise. He can't believe I don't remember him. \"Where were you in 2007-8?\" he proffers. I tell him, he nods. \"And what were you doing?\" He congratulates me on my answer. And I don't remember him?He says a woman's name. I stare back. He yells that it's his daughter. I don't remember her either. I sink down in the seat mortified. To save me further embarrassment he changes the subject, saying he's flying out to Paris where he now works. He leans in and rubs the lapel of his jacket between two fingers: he's in the rag trade. I feign delight \u2013 but who is he?He straightens up and asks what size I take. Medium. \"Open your boot, I've something for you.\" Now he's carefully placing a dark suit draped in plastic in the boot of my car. He says it retails at \u20ac2,600 ($3,100). He closes the boot and winks. Who is this guy?He stands closer and mumbles something that I don't catch. He repeats. Now I don't understand. He's getting annoyed and slowly repeats the suggestion that maybe I would like to make him some little contribution.I tell him I've no money; he senses an assertiveness in my tone. The suit's out of the boot in a flash and he's gone.Later, my son tells me that when he got out of the car, the driver behind called him over and asked him my name. My son obliged, thinking he was an acquaintance of mine.This is the don't-you-remember-me con, one of the top cons in Italy, and the most skilful. It's a beauty and it leaves me in awe of my artful amico. And to think I didn't even get his name.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy"], "title": "Letter from Italy: artful amico"},{"date": "2014-07-15T13:01:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday morning and I'm driving my son to Bologna airport for his flight to Valencia. I drop him at departures and head for a car park. A car draws along side, the driver waves at me. I put my window down and he greets me by name. I look at him blankly. He laughs and suggests we pull in. I nod and have no sooner turned off the engine than he's there leaning with both hands on my door grinning through the open window: \"Don't you remember me?\" Not really.He says my name again and cocks his head in various poses to help jog my memory. I apologise. He can't believe I don't remember him. \"Where were you in 2007-8?\" he proffers. I tell him, he nods. \"And what were you doing?\" He congratulates me on my answer. And I don't remember him?He says a woman's name. I stare back. He yells that it's his daughter. I don't remember her either. I sink down in the seat mortified. To save me further embarrassment he changes the subject, saying he's flying out to Paris where he now works. He leans in and rubs the lapel of his jacket between two fingers: he's in the rag trade. I feign delight \u2013 but who is he?He straightens up and asks what size I take. Medium. \"Open your boot, I've something for you.\" Now he's carefully placing a dark suit draped in plastic in the boot of my car. He says it retails at \u20ac2,600 ($3,100). He closes the boot and winks. Who is this guy?He stands closer and mumbles something that I don't catch. He repeats. Now I don't understand. He's getting annoyed and slowly repeats the suggestion that maybe I would like to make him some little contribution.I tell him I've no money; he senses an assertiveness in my tone. The suit's out of the boot in a flash and he's gone.Later, my son tells me that when he got out of the car, the driver behind called him over and asked him my name. My son obliged, thinking he was an acquaintance of mine.This is the don't-you-remember-me con, one of the top cons in Italy, and the most skilful. It's a beauty and it leaves me in awe of my artful amico. And to think I didn't even get his name.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy"], "title": "Letter from Italy: artful amico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T17:18:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A strike by air traffic controllers in Italy will lead to flights to and from the country being disrupted on Saturday.The four-hour action will affect thousands of passengers flying between the UK and Italy, with Ryanair and EasyJet announcing that they are cancelling flights.Ryanair will be cancelling 96 services in total, of which 8 are direct to the UK. They said more cancellations could be expected. EasyJet is cancelling around 60 services, mostly from Italy to other European destinations. British Airways said it was making contingency plans but is yet to cancel any services.The Italian strike should not affect travellers as broadly as the recent French air traffic controllers' strikes, which covered a larger swathe of neighbouring airspace.An EasyJet spokesperson said: \"We are doing everything possible to minimise the impact to our customers and we are offering anyone flying to and from Italy during those times, the opportunity to transfer their flight free of charge to another day to avoid the strike.\" Ryanair has cancelled some flights between Italian destinations and Manchester, Liverpool and Stansted airports and warned that travellers on other services could face delays.A Ryanair spokesperson said: \"Ryanair regrets to advise passengers that 96 flights will be cancelled on Saturday, 6th September, due to a four-hour Italian ATC strike and further delays and cancellations are likely. We sincerely apologise to all passengers who have had their travel plans disrupted by these unjustified ATC strikes.\"The airline said customers flying to Italy should check the status of their flight online before going to the airport.The strike action, brought by the air traffic control workers' union Licta, will run from 12:30pm to 4.30pm local time on Saturday 6 September.", "tags": ["Transport", "Italy", "easyJet", "Ryanair", "UK news", "Europe", "Airline industry"], "title": "Italy flights cancelled due to strike"},{"date": "2014-07-15T13:01:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday morning and I'm driving my son to Bologna airport for his flight to Valencia. I drop him at departures and head for a car park. A car draws along side, the driver waves at me. I put my window down and he greets me by name. I look at him blankly. He laughs and suggests we pull in. I nod and have no sooner turned off the engine than he's there leaning with both hands on my door grinning through the open window: \"Don't you remember me?\" Not really.He says my name again and cocks his head in various poses to help jog my memory. I apologise. He can't believe I don't remember him. \"Where were you in 2007-8?\" he proffers. I tell him, he nods. \"And what were you doing?\" He congratulates me on my answer. And I don't remember him?He says a woman's name. I stare back. He yells that it's his daughter. I don't remember her either. I sink down in the seat mortified. To save me further embarrassment he changes the subject, saying he's flying out to Paris where he now works. He leans in and rubs the lapel of his jacket between two fingers: he's in the rag trade. I feign delight \u2013 but who is he?He straightens up and asks what size I take. Medium. \"Open your boot, I've something for you.\" Now he's carefully placing a dark suit draped in plastic in the boot of my car. He says it retails at \u20ac2,600 ($3,100). He closes the boot and winks. Who is this guy?He stands closer and mumbles something that I don't catch. He repeats. Now I don't understand. He's getting annoyed and slowly repeats the suggestion that maybe I would like to make him some little contribution.I tell him I've no money; he senses an assertiveness in my tone. The suit's out of the boot in a flash and he's gone.Later, my son tells me that when he got out of the car, the driver behind called him over and asked him my name. My son obliged, thinking he was an acquaintance of mine.This is the don't-you-remember-me con, one of the top cons in Italy, and the most skilful. It's a beauty and it leaves me in awe of my artful amico. And to think I didn't even get his name.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy"], "title": "Letter from Italy: artful amico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T17:18:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A strike by air traffic controllers in Italy will lead to flights to and from the country being disrupted on Saturday.The four-hour action will affect thousands of passengers flying between the UK and Italy, with Ryanair and EasyJet announcing that they are cancelling flights.Ryanair will be cancelling 96 services in total, of which 8 are direct to the UK. They said more cancellations could be expected. EasyJet is cancelling around 60 services, mostly from Italy to other European destinations. British Airways said it was making contingency plans but is yet to cancel any services.The Italian strike should not affect travellers as broadly as the recent French air traffic controllers' strikes, which covered a larger swathe of neighbouring airspace.An EasyJet spokesperson said: \"We are doing everything possible to minimise the impact to our customers and we are offering anyone flying to and from Italy during those times, the opportunity to transfer their flight free of charge to another day to avoid the strike.\" Ryanair has cancelled some flights between Italian destinations and Manchester, Liverpool and Stansted airports and warned that travellers on other services could face delays.A Ryanair spokesperson said: \"Ryanair regrets to advise passengers that 96 flights will be cancelled on Saturday, 6th September, due to a four-hour Italian ATC strike and further delays and cancellations are likely. We sincerely apologise to all passengers who have had their travel plans disrupted by these unjustified ATC strikes.\"The airline said customers flying to Italy should check the status of their flight online before going to the airport.The strike action, brought by the air traffic control workers' union Licta, will run from 12:30pm to 4.30pm local time on Saturday 6 September.", "tags": ["Transport", "Italy", "easyJet", "Ryanair", "UK news", "Europe", "Airline industry"], "title": "Italy flights cancelled due to strike"},{"date": "2014-08-07T07:08:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Since Matteo Renzi grabbed the Italian premiership in February, Rome has fallen off the radar of most crisis watchers. Renzi\u2019s promise to institute sweeping reforms to business and labour markets appeared to be more than hot air following the appointment of Pier Carol Padoan as finance minister.The heavy-hitting former chief economist of the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) appeared to give the youthful Renzi the intellectual ballast and political clout needed to push through an ambitious agenda.This narrative was allied to figures showing Italy was already close to achieving a balanced budget and its banks were in better shape than many of France\u2019s famous names.Maybe it is too soon to judge, but figures showing the country has fallen back into recession will dent the new government\u2019s plans along with its image.Fathom Consulting, run by former Bank of England economist Danny Gabay, warns that Rome may rank as another of Europe\u2019s Black Swans. It has flirted with disaster before and always pulled back. Without a European Central Bank (ECB) rescue, in the form of large-scale quantitative easing, maybe a full-blown run on its debt is inevitable, possibly next year.Mario Draghi, the ECB president, is expected to tell his audience today that he is waiting to see how his previous attempts at offering cheap credit are faring before considering QE.Interest rates will be kept on hold alongside further monetary easing. The view from Draghi\u2019s Frankfurt base is that Italy is one of Europe\u2019s children and must be parented with an iron rod. Any hand-outs or relaxation in tough fiscal constraints will be spent by Rome on the equivalent of sweets and sugary drinks, is his view. And he is not alone. The Germans, Dutch and Brussels elite think the same way.What could change their mind is a panic-fuelled run on Italian debt.Fathom said in a note on Tuesday that the intersection between inflation and growth is the key.Growth is needed to pay the interest on the debt or the debt grows ever larger. It currently stands at around 130% of GDP. Inflation helps erode the debt while growth helps pay for it. Without growth, the contry needs higher inflation. Except the news on Wednesday that a 0.1% drop in output in the first quarter and 0.2% drop in the second was married to a 0% inflation rate.\u201cAs our final chart shows, even if we assume \u2013 somewhat generously \u2013 that Italian growth returns eventually to its average rate of 1.5% seen in the 30 years running up to the crisis, it would still require an inflation rate in excess of the 2.0% target just to stabilise Italian debt as a proportion of GDP.\u201cWith no growth, no inflation, and of course no currency of its own, something needs to give and soon if Italy is to continue to finance its vast national debt,\u201d it said.Renzi has other problems occupying his in-tray. On taking office he said the state and its agencies would pay back \u20ac75bn of debt owed to private suppliers by July. Last month, Padoan quietly pushed back the date to the end of this year. Hundreds of Italian companies are reportedly laying off staff to cope with the delayed payments, further hampering the recovery.It\u2019s a sticky situation and one which Draghi, against his better judgement, maybe be forced help with.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "World news", "European Union", "Italy", "Europe", "Matteo Renzi"], "title": "The ECB's next problem: saving Italy"},{"date": "2014-07-15T13:01:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday morning and I'm driving my son to Bologna airport for his flight to Valencia. I drop him at departures and head for a car park. A car draws along side, the driver waves at me. I put my window down and he greets me by name. I look at him blankly. He laughs and suggests we pull in. I nod and have no sooner turned off the engine than he's there leaning with both hands on my door grinning through the open window: \"Don't you remember me?\" Not really.He says my name again and cocks his head in various poses to help jog my memory. I apologise. He can't believe I don't remember him. \"Where were you in 2007-8?\" he proffers. I tell him, he nods. \"And what were you doing?\" He congratulates me on my answer. And I don't remember him?He says a woman's name. I stare back. He yells that it's his daughter. I don't remember her either. I sink down in the seat mortified. To save me further embarrassment he changes the subject, saying he's flying out to Paris where he now works. He leans in and rubs the lapel of his jacket between two fingers: he's in the rag trade. I feign delight \u2013 but who is he?He straightens up and asks what size I take. Medium. \"Open your boot, I've something for you.\" Now he's carefully placing a dark suit draped in plastic in the boot of my car. He says it retails at \u20ac2,600 ($3,100). He closes the boot and winks. Who is this guy?He stands closer and mumbles something that I don't catch. He repeats. Now I don't understand. He's getting annoyed and slowly repeats the suggestion that maybe I would like to make him some little contribution.I tell him I've no money; he senses an assertiveness in my tone. The suit's out of the boot in a flash and he's gone.Later, my son tells me that when he got out of the car, the driver behind called him over and asked him my name. My son obliged, thinking he was an acquaintance of mine.This is the don't-you-remember-me con, one of the top cons in Italy, and the most skilful. It's a beauty and it leaves me in awe of my artful amico. And to think I didn't even get his name.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy"], "title": "Letter from Italy: artful amico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T17:18:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A strike by air traffic controllers in Italy will lead to flights to and from the country being disrupted on Saturday.The four-hour action will affect thousands of passengers flying between the UK and Italy, with Ryanair and EasyJet announcing that they are cancelling flights.Ryanair will be cancelling 96 services in total, of which 8 are direct to the UK. They said more cancellations could be expected. EasyJet is cancelling around 60 services, mostly from Italy to other European destinations. British Airways said it was making contingency plans but is yet to cancel any services.The Italian strike should not affect travellers as broadly as the recent French air traffic controllers' strikes, which covered a larger swathe of neighbouring airspace.An EasyJet spokesperson said: \"We are doing everything possible to minimise the impact to our customers and we are offering anyone flying to and from Italy during those times, the opportunity to transfer their flight free of charge to another day to avoid the strike.\" Ryanair has cancelled some flights between Italian destinations and Manchester, Liverpool and Stansted airports and warned that travellers on other services could face delays.A Ryanair spokesperson said: \"Ryanair regrets to advise passengers that 96 flights will be cancelled on Saturday, 6th September, due to a four-hour Italian ATC strike and further delays and cancellations are likely. We sincerely apologise to all passengers who have had their travel plans disrupted by these unjustified ATC strikes.\"The airline said customers flying to Italy should check the status of their flight online before going to the airport.The strike action, brought by the air traffic control workers' union Licta, will run from 12:30pm to 4.30pm local time on Saturday 6 September.", "tags": ["Transport", "Italy", "easyJet", "Ryanair", "UK news", "Europe", "Airline industry"], "title": "Italy flights cancelled due to strike"},{"date": "2014-08-07T07:08:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Since Matteo Renzi grabbed the Italian premiership in February, Rome has fallen off the radar of most crisis watchers. Renzi\u2019s promise to institute sweeping reforms to business and labour markets appeared to be more than hot air following the appointment of Pier Carol Padoan as finance minister.The heavy-hitting former chief economist of the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) appeared to give the youthful Renzi the intellectual ballast and political clout needed to push through an ambitious agenda.This narrative was allied to figures showing Italy was already close to achieving a balanced budget and its banks were in better shape than many of France\u2019s famous names.Maybe it is too soon to judge, but figures showing the country has fallen back into recession will dent the new government\u2019s plans along with its image.Fathom Consulting, run by former Bank of England economist Danny Gabay, warns that Rome may rank as another of Europe\u2019s Black Swans. It has flirted with disaster before and always pulled back. Without a European Central Bank (ECB) rescue, in the form of large-scale quantitative easing, maybe a full-blown run on its debt is inevitable, possibly next year.Mario Draghi, the ECB president, is expected to tell his audience today that he is waiting to see how his previous attempts at offering cheap credit are faring before considering QE.Interest rates will be kept on hold alongside further monetary easing. The view from Draghi\u2019s Frankfurt base is that Italy is one of Europe\u2019s children and must be parented with an iron rod. Any hand-outs or relaxation in tough fiscal constraints will be spent by Rome on the equivalent of sweets and sugary drinks, is his view. And he is not alone. The Germans, Dutch and Brussels elite think the same way.What could change their mind is a panic-fuelled run on Italian debt.Fathom said in a note on Tuesday that the intersection between inflation and growth is the key.Growth is needed to pay the interest on the debt or the debt grows ever larger. It currently stands at around 130% of GDP. Inflation helps erode the debt while growth helps pay for it. Without growth, the contry needs higher inflation. Except the news on Wednesday that a 0.1% drop in output in the first quarter and 0.2% drop in the second was married to a 0% inflation rate.\u201cAs our final chart shows, even if we assume \u2013 somewhat generously \u2013 that Italian growth returns eventually to its average rate of 1.5% seen in the 30 years running up to the crisis, it would still require an inflation rate in excess of the 2.0% target just to stabilise Italian debt as a proportion of GDP.\u201cWith no growth, no inflation, and of course no currency of its own, something needs to give and soon if Italy is to continue to finance its vast national debt,\u201d it said.Renzi has other problems occupying his in-tray. On taking office he said the state and its agencies would pay back \u20ac75bn of debt owed to private suppliers by July. Last month, Padoan quietly pushed back the date to the end of this year. Hundreds of Italian companies are reportedly laying off staff to cope with the delayed payments, further hampering the recovery.It\u2019s a sticky situation and one which Draghi, against his better judgement, maybe be forced help with.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "World news", "European Union", "Italy", "Europe", "Matteo Renzi"], "title": "The ECB's next problem: saving Italy"},{"date": "2014-09-06T06:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The village of Piazzaga has a permanent population of two \u2013 a taciturn couple who, while I am there, only come out for the witch-burning. Perched on a precipitous hillside 700m above Lake Como and accessible only by jeep or on foot, the village becomes virtually uninhabitable in winter. But in summer its stone cottages fill with retirees from Como and Milan, tourists embark on the trek up the hill from the lakeside resort of Torno, and Crotto Piazzaga opens its doors.As the only business in town, Crotto Piazzaga serves both as gourmet restaurant and a hub of the community. In its gourmet capacity, it rewards trekkers for their exertion with butter-drenched local dishes and spectacular views over the lake. As community hub, it provides a constant flow of espressos and gossip.The volunteering deal is simple: essential help entails two hours of washing up during the busy lunch service in exchange for accommodation, excellent food and limitless red wine. Additional help depends on your own enthusiasm. Despite my initial scepticism at the prospect of volunteering in a restaurant, the deal strikes me as pretty good.During services, chef Alessandro prances around stirring pots and keeping up an indefatigable chatter, broken only by sporadic snatches of song. Co-managers Veronica and Katya administer front of house. My washing-up burden is shared by fellow volunteer Lee \u2013 a debonair Australian mining geologist on an epicurean tour of Italy with an eye out for properties and Italian cougars.Crotto\u2019s menu changes weekly and is a celebration of rustic mountain food. Pizzoccheri (fresh buckwheat pasta) with Swiss chard, three cheeses and garlic-sage butter, oven-baked ribs with polenta, veal in mushroom sauce. All three members of staff tend to me patiently through my wrestles with pasta rollers, Italian grammar and the cappuccino machine.After a few days, I assume I know everything there is to know about Piazzaga, and the witch-burning takes me by surprise. An inscrutable annual tradition, it starts with the entire village crowding into the restaurant to eat tripe, and culminates with the igniting of a pyre behind the church, from which protrudes the effigy of a woman atop a wooden pole, dressed in a mismatched selection of old clothes. The direction the flaming \u201cwitch\u201d falls dictates the village\u2019s luck for the next year \u2013 towards the lake being a good omen, towards the hillside bad.As to the origins of this custom, everyone I ask claims ignorance. This year, amid gasps and accusations of poor pyre-stacking, the \u201cwitch\u201d topples sideways, trainers smoking but otherwise unharmed. After she is thrown resolutely on to the pyre, the village retires to Crotto to debate what the unprecedented omen could mean. Heads are shaken ominously.Yet nobody can maintain their solemnity for long, and as the evening wears on peals of laughter break out. Calls for wine progress to calls for grappa. Alessandro is drawn into an impassioned duet of Nessun Dorma with a silver-haired gentleman sporting a magnificent moustache. Somehow, I think they\u2019ll be OK.\u2022 Cat organised her trip through workaway.info, which features thousands of volunteering opportunities ", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Italy holidays", "Italian food and drink", "Volunteering holidays", "Travel", "Volunteering", "Budget travel"], "title": "Volunteering in Italy: washing up and witch burning"},{"date": "2014-07-15T13:01:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday morning and I'm driving my son to Bologna airport for his flight to Valencia. I drop him at departures and head for a car park. A car draws along side, the driver waves at me. I put my window down and he greets me by name. I look at him blankly. He laughs and suggests we pull in. I nod and have no sooner turned off the engine than he's there leaning with both hands on my door grinning through the open window: \"Don't you remember me?\" Not really.He says my name again and cocks his head in various poses to help jog my memory. I apologise. He can't believe I don't remember him. \"Where were you in 2007-8?\" he proffers. I tell him, he nods. \"And what were you doing?\" He congratulates me on my answer. And I don't remember him?He says a woman's name. I stare back. He yells that it's his daughter. I don't remember her either. I sink down in the seat mortified. To save me further embarrassment he changes the subject, saying he's flying out to Paris where he now works. He leans in and rubs the lapel of his jacket between two fingers: he's in the rag trade. I feign delight \u2013 but who is he?He straightens up and asks what size I take. Medium. \"Open your boot, I've something for you.\" Now he's carefully placing a dark suit draped in plastic in the boot of my car. He says it retails at \u20ac2,600 ($3,100). He closes the boot and winks. Who is this guy?He stands closer and mumbles something that I don't catch. He repeats. Now I don't understand. He's getting annoyed and slowly repeats the suggestion that maybe I would like to make him some little contribution.I tell him I've no money; he senses an assertiveness in my tone. The suit's out of the boot in a flash and he's gone.Later, my son tells me that when he got out of the car, the driver behind called him over and asked him my name. My son obliged, thinking he was an acquaintance of mine.This is the don't-you-remember-me con, one of the top cons in Italy, and the most skilful. It's a beauty and it leaves me in awe of my artful amico. And to think I didn't even get his name.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy"], "title": "Letter from Italy: artful amico"},{"date": "2014-09-05T17:18:38Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A strike by air traffic controllers in Italy will lead to flights to and from the country being disrupted on Saturday.The four-hour action will affect thousands of passengers flying between the UK and Italy, with Ryanair and EasyJet announcing that they are cancelling flights.Ryanair will be cancelling 96 services in total, of which 8 are direct to the UK. They said more cancellations could be expected. EasyJet is cancelling around 60 services, mostly from Italy to other European destinations. British Airways said it was making contingency plans but is yet to cancel any services.The Italian strike should not affect travellers as broadly as the recent French air traffic controllers' strikes, which covered a larger swathe of neighbouring airspace.An EasyJet spokesperson said: \"We are doing everything possible to minimise the impact to our customers and we are offering anyone flying to and from Italy during those times, the opportunity to transfer their flight free of charge to another day to avoid the strike.\" Ryanair has cancelled some flights between Italian destinations and Manchester, Liverpool and Stansted airports and warned that travellers on other services could face delays.A Ryanair spokesperson said: \"Ryanair regrets to advise passengers that 96 flights will be cancelled on Saturday, 6th September, due to a four-hour Italian ATC strike and further delays and cancellations are likely. We sincerely apologise to all passengers who have had their travel plans disrupted by these unjustified ATC strikes.\"The airline said customers flying to Italy should check the status of their flight online before going to the airport.The strike action, brought by the air traffic control workers' union Licta, will run from 12:30pm to 4.30pm local time on Saturday 6 September.", "tags": ["Transport", "Italy", "easyJet", "Ryanair", "UK news", "Europe", "Airline industry"], "title": "Italy flights cancelled due to strike"},{"date": "2014-08-07T07:08:12Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Since Matteo Renzi grabbed the Italian premiership in February, Rome has fallen off the radar of most crisis watchers. Renzi\u2019s promise to institute sweeping reforms to business and labour markets appeared to be more than hot air following the appointment of Pier Carol Padoan as finance minister.The heavy-hitting former chief economist of the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) appeared to give the youthful Renzi the intellectual ballast and political clout needed to push through an ambitious agenda.This narrative was allied to figures showing Italy was already close to achieving a balanced budget and its banks were in better shape than many of France\u2019s famous names.Maybe it is too soon to judge, but figures showing the country has fallen back into recession will dent the new government\u2019s plans along with its image.Fathom Consulting, run by former Bank of England economist Danny Gabay, warns that Rome may rank as another of Europe\u2019s Black Swans. It has flirted with disaster before and always pulled back. Without a European Central Bank (ECB) rescue, in the form of large-scale quantitative easing, maybe a full-blown run on its debt is inevitable, possibly next year.Mario Draghi, the ECB president, is expected to tell his audience today that he is waiting to see how his previous attempts at offering cheap credit are faring before considering QE.Interest rates will be kept on hold alongside further monetary easing. The view from Draghi\u2019s Frankfurt base is that Italy is one of Europe\u2019s children and must be parented with an iron rod. Any hand-outs or relaxation in tough fiscal constraints will be spent by Rome on the equivalent of sweets and sugary drinks, is his view. And he is not alone. The Germans, Dutch and Brussels elite think the same way.What could change their mind is a panic-fuelled run on Italian debt.Fathom said in a note on Tuesday that the intersection between inflation and growth is the key.Growth is needed to pay the interest on the debt or the debt grows ever larger. It currently stands at around 130% of GDP. Inflation helps erode the debt while growth helps pay for it. Without growth, the contry needs higher inflation. Except the news on Wednesday that a 0.1% drop in output in the first quarter and 0.2% drop in the second was married to a 0% inflation rate.\u201cAs our final chart shows, even if we assume \u2013 somewhat generously \u2013 that Italian growth returns eventually to its average rate of 1.5% seen in the 30 years running up to the crisis, it would still require an inflation rate in excess of the 2.0% target just to stabilise Italian debt as a proportion of GDP.\u201cWith no growth, no inflation, and of course no currency of its own, something needs to give and soon if Italy is to continue to finance its vast national debt,\u201d it said.Renzi has other problems occupying his in-tray. On taking office he said the state and its agencies would pay back \u20ac75bn of debt owed to private suppliers by July. Last month, Padoan quietly pushed back the date to the end of this year. Hundreds of Italian companies are reportedly laying off staff to cope with the delayed payments, further hampering the recovery.It\u2019s a sticky situation and one which Draghi, against his better judgement, maybe be forced help with.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "World news", "European Union", "Italy", "Europe", "Matteo Renzi"], "title": "The ECB's next problem: saving Italy"},{"date": "2014-09-06T06:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The village of Piazzaga has a permanent population of two \u2013 a taciturn couple who, while I am there, only come out for the witch-burning. Perched on a precipitous hillside 700m above Lake Como and accessible only by jeep or on foot, the village becomes virtually uninhabitable in winter. But in summer its stone cottages fill with retirees from Como and Milan, tourists embark on the trek up the hill from the lakeside resort of Torno, and Crotto Piazzaga opens its doors.As the only business in town, Crotto Piazzaga serves both as gourmet restaurant and a hub of the community. In its gourmet capacity, it rewards trekkers for their exertion with butter-drenched local dishes and spectacular views over the lake. As community hub, it provides a constant flow of espressos and gossip.The volunteering deal is simple: essential help entails two hours of washing up during the busy lunch service in exchange for accommodation, excellent food and limitless red wine. Additional help depends on your own enthusiasm. Despite my initial scepticism at the prospect of volunteering in a restaurant, the deal strikes me as pretty good.During services, chef Alessandro prances around stirring pots and keeping up an indefatigable chatter, broken only by sporadic snatches of song. Co-managers Veronica and Katya administer front of house. My washing-up burden is shared by fellow volunteer Lee \u2013 a debonair Australian mining geologist on an epicurean tour of Italy with an eye out for properties and Italian cougars.Crotto\u2019s menu changes weekly and is a celebration of rustic mountain food. Pizzoccheri (fresh buckwheat pasta) with Swiss chard, three cheeses and garlic-sage butter, oven-baked ribs with polenta, veal in mushroom sauce. All three members of staff tend to me patiently through my wrestles with pasta rollers, Italian grammar and the cappuccino machine.After a few days, I assume I know everything there is to know about Piazzaga, and the witch-burning takes me by surprise. An inscrutable annual tradition, it starts with the entire village crowding into the restaurant to eat tripe, and culminates with the igniting of a pyre behind the church, from which protrudes the effigy of a woman atop a wooden pole, dressed in a mismatched selection of old clothes. The direction the flaming \u201cwitch\u201d falls dictates the village\u2019s luck for the next year \u2013 towards the lake being a good omen, towards the hillside bad.As to the origins of this custom, everyone I ask claims ignorance. This year, amid gasps and accusations of poor pyre-stacking, the \u201cwitch\u201d topples sideways, trainers smoking but otherwise unharmed. After she is thrown resolutely on to the pyre, the village retires to Crotto to debate what the unprecedented omen could mean. Heads are shaken ominously.Yet nobody can maintain their solemnity for long, and as the evening wears on peals of laughter break out. Calls for wine progress to calls for grappa. Alessandro is drawn into an impassioned duet of Nessun Dorma with a silver-haired gentleman sporting a magnificent moustache. Somehow, I think they\u2019ll be OK.\u2022 Cat organised her trip through workaway.info, which features thousands of volunteering opportunities ", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Italy holidays", "Italian food and drink", "Volunteering holidays", "Travel", "Volunteering", "Budget travel"], "title": "Volunteering in Italy: washing up and witch burning"},{"date": "2014-08-30T12:47:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande removed his government's leading anti-German, anti-austerity leftwinger last week. By the following day the French president had already co-opted part of the message of the departed disloyal firebrand, Arnaud Montebourg.As France's ambassadors from around the world converged on Paris for their annual presidential pep talk, Hollande launched a fresh broadside against Berlin and Brussels. He called for an emergency eurozone summit to shift the troubled currency zone's policies in a more expansionary direction. He demanded more leeway in spending cuts to get his budget deficit in line with the euro rulebook, although he has already twice been cut some slack by Brussels.\"Europe is threatened by long, perhaps endless, stagnation if we do nothing,\" he warned. \"Because the recovery is too low, inflation is too low, the euro is too expensive.\"Hollande may be beleaguered, but he is far from isolated in that judgment. A week earlier the president had found a form of support in the unlikeliest of places, the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. Ordinarily a bastion of Teutonic monetary rigour and fiscal rectitude, the ECB is sounding the alarm at Europe's maddening failure to dig itself out of its post-crisis hole.In a speech in the US, Mario Draghi, the Italian head of the ECB, intimated a major policy shift towards fiscal stimulus, quantitative easing and asset purchases. It was time for Europe's governments to stop cutting and start spending, he suggested, coupling his words with the usual nostrums about the imperative for structural reforms, particularly in France and Italy.\"Everyone's concerned about France and Italy,\" said a senior EU official. \"The debate in the autumn will be difficult. We're not back at the existential threat of the euro crisis that ended in 2012. But we risk slumping into low-to-minimal growth. The economic figures look a lot less promising than they did.\"More than two years into the Hollande presidency, the French economy stubbornly refuses to grow while joblessness rates continue to rise. Italy, with youth unemployment at a staggering 43%, is in its third recession in six years.According to figures from the European commission last week, eurozone inflation was at 0.3%, well below the official ECB target of 2%, while business and consumer confidence fell by 1.6 points in the eurozone.Over the last 12 months there has been an air of complacent self-congratulation among eurozone leaders at having weathered four stormy years of bailouts and bad banks, recession and soaring unemployment with the survival of the euro at stake.As the leaders gathered this weekend in Brussels to squabble over top jobs and the shape of the new regime running the EU for the next five years, complacency gave way to a returned sense of gloom, a deepening realisation that Europe is entrenched in a demoralising era of deflation, stagnation, no growth, no recovery, and no jobs, especially for young people. The economic gloom descending in the wake of the debt and currency crisis is shifting some of the main lines of conflict in European politics, as shown by the drama in Paris over the last week.Montebourg called austerity \"absurd\" and lambasted Berlin for imposing the spending straitjacket on everyone else. He had to go because of his disloyalty towards Hollande. But his criticisms of Angela Merkel, of austerity, of the hopelessness that German-led policies are breeding, resonated well beyond Paris.The formation of Hollande's more reformist team in Paris, the emergence of Matteo Renzi in Italy as a young populist centre-left agent of change, and Draghi's apparent conversion to looser, more expansionary monetary and fiscal policies suggest that Merkel's and Berlin's domination of policymaking may be challenged more coherently. \"It's a new phase beginning,\" said a second senior EU official. Merkel will face greater and more effective resistance across the eurozone \"if they all play their parts cleverly \".This leaves the German leader looking more isolated in Europe, though not necessarily weaker. \"Her influence is still strong and resistance is growing,\" said the official.Arguments over austerity and growth have the makings of a battle or a bargain. An early sign of who has the upper hand will emerge over the next fortnight from the shape of the new European commission under its new chief and Britain's b\u00eate noire, Jean-Claude Juncker.The key post here is the economic and monetary affairs commissioner who polices the budgets of the member states and is the guardian of the German-prescribed rigour laid down in the euro rulebook, the stability and growth pact. Pierre Moscovici, Hollande's former campaign manager and finance minister, is the French candidate and is laying claim to the portfolio.Of all the top jobs being traded in Brussels over the next fortnight, however, this is the one exercising Merkel the most. She is determined to prevent it going to the French \u2013 and to stop it going to a socialist. She will compromise generously on some of the other plum posts to win this fight, say senior German government officials. This turns up the heat on Juncker, who enjoys substantial powers in deciding who gets what. In the formation of a new commission, national governments put forward their nominees. The commission chief then distributes the portfolios.Juncker, like Merkel, is a Christian democrat, but on the leftish side of that broad church. He has said he is inclined to award the powerful economy portfolio to a social democrat. \"It's just not the case that you can divide the world into good and evil,\" he told the Observer in May, \"that Christian democrats are responsible for austerity and socialists for generous social policies. There's good and bad on both sides.\"Whether a French or German-backed contender wins that post will show who has the upper hand in the fight between cutters and spenders, although both sides will look to cut a deal. \"Who says Merkel favours a decade of no growth? We may see change coming with her tacit support. She's not dogmatic,\" said one of the senior officials.If bargain prevails over battle, the deal would be to trade guarantees of changes to labour markets, pension systems and other structural reforms in return for a relaxation of austerity.But it may be too little too late to make much difference.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "World news", "France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Eurozone fears of stagnation grow as France and Italy suffer"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-14T17:52:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\n\n5.52pm GMT\n17:52\n\nSlightly better than expected economic growth figures from France and Germany, and indeed the overall eurozone number as well, have helped support markets ahead of this weekend\u2019s G20 meeting. Greece exited recession, which added to the positive mood, but on the other hand, Italy fell back again. Overall though, it was a fairly upbeat end to the week. The final scores showed:On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently down 15 points or 0.09%.On that note, it\u2019s time to close up for the evening. Thanks for all your comments, have a good weekend and we\u2019ll be back on Monday.\n\n4.17pm GMT\n16:17\n\nMore on the protests in Greece from Helena Smith:Greek students have left a trail of banners and graffiti behind them as they marched through Athens this afternoon. In a display of their dermination against a government they now accuse of employing heavy -handed tactics, in addition to selling out to international creditors, this banner in front of Athens University reads: \u201cPolice get out from the university. Hands off asylum and down with the government\u201d and demands that the rector of the school immediately resigns. Ahead of commemorations marking the 1973 Polytechnic Uprising, the rector has refused to grant students access to university campuses - the asylum long seen as a hallowed right of students after the collapse of military rule in 1974. The main boulevards are peppered with freshly painted slogans some of which have not been seen since the height of the euro crisis. Students marching on parliament this afternoon pledged to step up protests over the weekend with many saying \u201cthe end of the government has arrived.\u201d\u201cThe government has miscalculated gravely on this. All Greece needs is a spark (to erupt) and this may be it,\u201d said a law school student who gave his name as Petros Pappas. Such fears are shared by older Greeks who expressed shock this afternoon at the level of violence used against Athens university on Thursday. \u201cThe violence last night against students protesting peacefully was disproportionate and shows that the government is very fearful of young people becoming the spark of a fire that it won\u2019t be able to comtrol,\u201d said Leonidas Aposkitis, aged 50, who marched through Athens after taking part in Thursday\u2019s demonstration.\n\n2.59pm GMT\n14:59\n\nAnd yet more positive news from the US economy.Consumer confidence rose to a seven year high in November (so far), helped by falling unemployment - as the Fed\u2019s James Bullard has been saying - and lower petrol prices.The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan first reading on its consumer sentiment index came in at 89.4, above the 87.5 reading expected by economists and up from the revised 86.9 seen in October.Outlook brightens for holiday shopping as retail sales outperform and consumer sentiment rises...gas prices are helping, to be sure.Updated\nat 3.08pm GMT\n\n\n2.48pm GMT\n14:48\n\nThe better than average performance of the US jobs market is inconsistent with interest rates at near zero, a member of the US Federal Reserve has said.Speaking to an audience in St Louis, Jame Bullard said he did not see low inflation readings as a reason to delay a move away from low rates. He said (courtesy Reuters):[Jobs growth] suggests that over the next year, it will become more and more difficult to point to labour market performance as a rationale for a near-zero policy rate.Bullard is a notable hawk but is currently a non-voting member of the Fed\u2019s rate setting committee, until 2016. Even so, the idea of rising US rates is gaining ground, hence the strength in the dollar.Fed\u2019s Bullard: Job Market Gains No Longer Justify Current Fed Policy: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis\u2026 http://t.co/QjjtQOIrjB WSJ\n\n2.37pm GMT\n14:37\n\nThe positive US figures is giving the dollar a lift, with sterling falling to a 14 month low against the US currency. Nicholas Ebisch, currency analyst at Caxton FX said:Retail sales data in the US beat expectations this afternoon, coming in at 0.3% when 0.2% was expected. This comes in along with a string of positive data for the US dollar. The dollar index is currently at 88.24, which is its highest point since mid-2010. The US economy continues to be the brighter spot in a global economy that is struggling with growth, thereby boosting the dollar continuously higher.\n\n1.45pm GMT\n13:45\n\nStill with the US, and import prices fell in September by 1.3%, the most in more than two years.The fall was due for the most part to lower costs for imported fuels following the recent crude price slump. The strong dollar also meant that it was cheaper for Americans to buy imports.Export prices fell 1%, as the global economy weakened.\n\n1.33pm GMT\n13:33\n\nOver to the US, and retail sales for October have come in better than expected, a positive sign of returning consumer confidence and good news for the economy ahead of the key Christmas shopping period.Retail sales - excluding volatile elements such as cars and gasoline - rose 0.5% last monthcompared to expectations of a 0.4% rise, and the biggest increase since August.Overall they rose 0.3%, higher than the expected 0.2% increase.Sales at food service and drinking places up 0.9% in October. Less spent at the pump. More spent at the bar. pic.twitter.com/JDH5IQvVdRUpdated\nat 1.40pm GMT\n\n\n1.17pm GMT\n13:17\n\nThe news that Greece has left recession comes as the country is gripped by scenes of protesting students.Our Athens correspondent, Helena Smith, explains:Tensions are very much on rise after overnight riots outside Athens Polytechnic (where the 1973 student uprising set in motion the events that lead to the fall of Greece\u2019s hated military regime) and a student take-over this morning of Thessaloniki University. As I write, students are marching through Athens.Protestors are up in arms over government\u2019s controversial decision to implement a lock-out at all tertiary education institutions in run-up to the anniversary this Monday. Usually, university students have used the three-day period set aside for commemorations to stage sit-ins (that are themselves often marked by clashes between left and right wing students). Tensions have been fueled by anger over tuition costs & other international-mandated educational cuts - and they show no sign of abating ahead of Monday\u2019s anniversary. Videos have been released that also depict riot police using excessive force to remove protestors from the scene of the Polytechnic last night. Riot police resorted to using tear gas and stun guns to remove students from the sight - without giving them any prior warning that they should get out of the way! Outside Athens University\u2019s law School tensions are also high today. On that note, I\u2019m handing over to my colleague Nick Fletcher.Updated\nat 1.45pm GMT\n\n\n1.03pm GMT\n13:03\n\nRichard Boxshall, senior economist at PwC, points out that Europe\u2019s core countries are now lagging behind the periphery, such as Spain and Greece. \u201cToday\u2019s figures show continued very sluggish growth in the eurozone, but it has avoided lapsing back into recession. The former powerhouse of the bloc, Germany, grew at a modest rate of just 0.1% in Q3, while France was the surprise with growth of 0.3%. However, the detailed data showed that the \u2018French surprise\u2019 was primarily driven by relatively strong government spending growth, which is unlikely to be sustainable in the medium term. Meanwhile, Italy has fallen back into a mild recession.\u201cIn contrast, most peripheral countries continue to grow at relatively strong rates with Greece growing seven times faster than Germany, closely followed by Spain and Portugal.\u201d\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nOur economics editor, Larry Elliott, writes that eurozone leaders must not shelter behind the fact that today\u2019s growth figures could have been worse.He writes:Policymakers are deluding themselves if they believe that narrowly avoiding recession is the same as being on the road to recovery. The eurozone today is starting to look worryingly like Japan in the 1990s: little growth, crippled banks, export dependent. All it lacks to make the comparison complete is deflation, and one further negative shock would make that a reality too.It\u2019s clear what the eurozone needs. It needs monetary activism from the ECB. It needs fiscal activism, both from individual countries and from pan-European institutions such as the European Investment Bank. It needs Germany to realise that generalised belt-tightening has been self-defeating. And it needs all those things fast.\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nA reminder that Germany and France are above their pre-crisis peaks, but the wider eurozone is not - and Italy\u2019s decline is quite alarming. *NEW POST* #graficodellasettimana: l\u2019#Europa che non cresce e l\u2019#Italia in #recessione > http://t.co/wWXnOJ79Ki #PIL pic.twitter.com/N3hsKclDI0", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Economics", "Banking", "European monetary union", "Financial sector"], "title": "Greece out of recession, as economy grows by 0.7% - eurozone GDP live"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-14T17:52:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\n\n5.52pm GMT\n17:52\n\nSlightly better than expected economic growth figures from France and Germany, and indeed the overall eurozone number as well, have helped support markets ahead of this weekend\u2019s G20 meeting. Greece exited recession, which added to the positive mood, but on the other hand, Italy fell back again. Overall though, it was a fairly upbeat end to the week. The final scores showed:On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently down 15 points or 0.09%.On that note, it\u2019s time to close up for the evening. Thanks for all your comments, have a good weekend and we\u2019ll be back on Monday.\n\n4.17pm GMT\n16:17\n\nMore on the protests in Greece from Helena Smith:Greek students have left a trail of banners and graffiti behind them as they marched through Athens this afternoon. In a display of their dermination against a government they now accuse of employing heavy -handed tactics, in addition to selling out to international creditors, this banner in front of Athens University reads: \u201cPolice get out from the university. Hands off asylum and down with the government\u201d and demands that the rector of the school immediately resigns. Ahead of commemorations marking the 1973 Polytechnic Uprising, the rector has refused to grant students access to university campuses - the asylum long seen as a hallowed right of students after the collapse of military rule in 1974. The main boulevards are peppered with freshly painted slogans some of which have not been seen since the height of the euro crisis. Students marching on parliament this afternoon pledged to step up protests over the weekend with many saying \u201cthe end of the government has arrived.\u201d\u201cThe government has miscalculated gravely on this. All Greece needs is a spark (to erupt) and this may be it,\u201d said a law school student who gave his name as Petros Pappas. Such fears are shared by older Greeks who expressed shock this afternoon at the level of violence used against Athens university on Thursday. \u201cThe violence last night against students protesting peacefully was disproportionate and shows that the government is very fearful of young people becoming the spark of a fire that it won\u2019t be able to comtrol,\u201d said Leonidas Aposkitis, aged 50, who marched through Athens after taking part in Thursday\u2019s demonstration.\n\n2.59pm GMT\n14:59\n\nAnd yet more positive news from the US economy.Consumer confidence rose to a seven year high in November (so far), helped by falling unemployment - as the Fed\u2019s James Bullard has been saying - and lower petrol prices.The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan first reading on its consumer sentiment index came in at 89.4, above the 87.5 reading expected by economists and up from the revised 86.9 seen in October.Outlook brightens for holiday shopping as retail sales outperform and consumer sentiment rises...gas prices are helping, to be sure.Updated\nat 3.08pm GMT\n\n\n2.48pm GMT\n14:48\n\nThe better than average performance of the US jobs market is inconsistent with interest rates at near zero, a member of the US Federal Reserve has said.Speaking to an audience in St Louis, Jame Bullard said he did not see low inflation readings as a reason to delay a move away from low rates. He said (courtesy Reuters):[Jobs growth] suggests that over the next year, it will become more and more difficult to point to labour market performance as a rationale for a near-zero policy rate.Bullard is a notable hawk but is currently a non-voting member of the Fed\u2019s rate setting committee, until 2016. Even so, the idea of rising US rates is gaining ground, hence the strength in the dollar.Fed\u2019s Bullard: Job Market Gains No Longer Justify Current Fed Policy: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis\u2026 http://t.co/QjjtQOIrjB WSJ\n\n2.37pm GMT\n14:37\n\nThe positive US figures is giving the dollar a lift, with sterling falling to a 14 month low against the US currency. Nicholas Ebisch, currency analyst at Caxton FX said:Retail sales data in the US beat expectations this afternoon, coming in at 0.3% when 0.2% was expected. This comes in along with a string of positive data for the US dollar. The dollar index is currently at 88.24, which is its highest point since mid-2010. The US economy continues to be the brighter spot in a global economy that is struggling with growth, thereby boosting the dollar continuously higher.\n\n1.45pm GMT\n13:45\n\nStill with the US, and import prices fell in September by 1.3%, the most in more than two years.The fall was due for the most part to lower costs for imported fuels following the recent crude price slump. The strong dollar also meant that it was cheaper for Americans to buy imports.Export prices fell 1%, as the global economy weakened.\n\n1.33pm GMT\n13:33\n\nOver to the US, and retail sales for October have come in better than expected, a positive sign of returning consumer confidence and good news for the economy ahead of the key Christmas shopping period.Retail sales - excluding volatile elements such as cars and gasoline - rose 0.5% last monthcompared to expectations of a 0.4% rise, and the biggest increase since August.Overall they rose 0.3%, higher than the expected 0.2% increase.Sales at food service and drinking places up 0.9% in October. Less spent at the pump. More spent at the bar. pic.twitter.com/JDH5IQvVdRUpdated\nat 1.40pm GMT\n\n\n1.17pm GMT\n13:17\n\nThe news that Greece has left recession comes as the country is gripped by scenes of protesting students.Our Athens correspondent, Helena Smith, explains:Tensions are very much on rise after overnight riots outside Athens Polytechnic (where the 1973 student uprising set in motion the events that lead to the fall of Greece\u2019s hated military regime) and a student take-over this morning of Thessaloniki University. As I write, students are marching through Athens.Protestors are up in arms over government\u2019s controversial decision to implement a lock-out at all tertiary education institutions in run-up to the anniversary this Monday. Usually, university students have used the three-day period set aside for commemorations to stage sit-ins (that are themselves often marked by clashes between left and right wing students). Tensions have been fueled by anger over tuition costs & other international-mandated educational cuts - and they show no sign of abating ahead of Monday\u2019s anniversary. Videos have been released that also depict riot police using excessive force to remove protestors from the scene of the Polytechnic last night. Riot police resorted to using tear gas and stun guns to remove students from the sight - without giving them any prior warning that they should get out of the way! Outside Athens University\u2019s law School tensions are also high today. On that note, I\u2019m handing over to my colleague Nick Fletcher.Updated\nat 1.45pm GMT\n\n\n1.03pm GMT\n13:03\n\nRichard Boxshall, senior economist at PwC, points out that Europe\u2019s core countries are now lagging behind the periphery, such as Spain and Greece. \u201cToday\u2019s figures show continued very sluggish growth in the eurozone, but it has avoided lapsing back into recession. The former powerhouse of the bloc, Germany, grew at a modest rate of just 0.1% in Q3, while France was the surprise with growth of 0.3%. However, the detailed data showed that the \u2018French surprise\u2019 was primarily driven by relatively strong government spending growth, which is unlikely to be sustainable in the medium term. Meanwhile, Italy has fallen back into a mild recession.\u201cIn contrast, most peripheral countries continue to grow at relatively strong rates with Greece growing seven times faster than Germany, closely followed by Spain and Portugal.\u201d\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nOur economics editor, Larry Elliott, writes that eurozone leaders must not shelter behind the fact that today\u2019s growth figures could have been worse.He writes:Policymakers are deluding themselves if they believe that narrowly avoiding recession is the same as being on the road to recovery. The eurozone today is starting to look worryingly like Japan in the 1990s: little growth, crippled banks, export dependent. All it lacks to make the comparison complete is deflation, and one further negative shock would make that a reality too.It\u2019s clear what the eurozone needs. It needs monetary activism from the ECB. It needs fiscal activism, both from individual countries and from pan-European institutions such as the European Investment Bank. It needs Germany to realise that generalised belt-tightening has been self-defeating. And it needs all those things fast.\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nA reminder that Germany and France are above their pre-crisis peaks, but the wider eurozone is not - and Italy\u2019s decline is quite alarming. *NEW POST* #graficodellasettimana: l\u2019#Europa che non cresce e l\u2019#Italia in #recessione > http://t.co/wWXnOJ79Ki #PIL pic.twitter.com/N3hsKclDI0", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Economics", "Banking", "European monetary union", "Financial sector"], "title": "Greece out of recession, as economy grows by 0.7% - eurozone GDP live"},{"date": "2014-12-28T12:23:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rescue services were facing a double emergency in the Adriatic after a ferry plying between Greece and Italy caught fire with at least 466 people on board and two merchant vessels collided off the north-eastern Italian port of Ravenna.According to conflicting reports, up to four people were missing following the collision and several were injured. The two ships \u2013 one Turkish and the other flying the flag of Belize \u2013 collided in thick fog.Rough seas between Albania and the heel of Italy were hampering efforts to evacuate a burning Italian ferry, on which hundreds of people were trapped.The Greek coastguard said 150 people had been rescued from the Italian-registered Norman Atlantic. The ferry sent a distress signal after fire broke out on its lower deck.The Italian news agency Ansa reported that the captain had told the Italian coastguard he could no longer control his vessel, which was drifting eastwards towards the Albanian shoreline north of the port of Vlora. The agency said the rescued passengers, including women and children, had been taken aboard a Greek ferry.Eight Italians suffering from hypothermia were reported to have been rescued and flown to the military airport in the south-eastern Italian region of Puglia. From there they were moved to a civilian hospital in the town of GalatinaThe rest of the passengers were reported to have taken refuge on the upper decks of the vessels. \u201cThe fire is still burning,\u201d Greek passenger Sofoklis Styliaras told Mega television. \u201cOn the lower deck, where the lifeboats are, our shoes were starting to melt from the heat \u2026 There\u2019s nowhere else for us to go. It\u2019s impossible to walk on the lower deck because of the heat.\u201dSeven merchant ships and an Italian coast guard vessel, were on the scene, ready to take on more passengers, while a firefighting tug dispatched from Brindisi was on its way to the area.Cold winter temperatures and winds gusting at up to 55mph made conditions difficult for rescuers.Greece\u2019s merchant marine minister, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, said the coastguard was in constant contact with Italian authorities and the Greek armed forces. \u201cWe are committed to rescuing everyone on the ship, and are trying to ensure that nobody will be left unaided,\u201d he said.Greek authorities said they had sent five helicopters and a military transport plane to the area to assist in the operation.The 26,904-tonne Norman Atlantic was built only five years ago.", "tags": ["Greece", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Ferry catches fire between Greece and Italy with hundreds on board"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-14T17:52:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\n\n5.52pm GMT\n17:52\n\nSlightly better than expected economic growth figures from France and Germany, and indeed the overall eurozone number as well, have helped support markets ahead of this weekend\u2019s G20 meeting. Greece exited recession, which added to the positive mood, but on the other hand, Italy fell back again. Overall though, it was a fairly upbeat end to the week. The final scores showed:On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently down 15 points or 0.09%.On that note, it\u2019s time to close up for the evening. Thanks for all your comments, have a good weekend and we\u2019ll be back on Monday.\n\n4.17pm GMT\n16:17\n\nMore on the protests in Greece from Helena Smith:Greek students have left a trail of banners and graffiti behind them as they marched through Athens this afternoon. In a display of their dermination against a government they now accuse of employing heavy -handed tactics, in addition to selling out to international creditors, this banner in front of Athens University reads: \u201cPolice get out from the university. Hands off asylum and down with the government\u201d and demands that the rector of the school immediately resigns. Ahead of commemorations marking the 1973 Polytechnic Uprising, the rector has refused to grant students access to university campuses - the asylum long seen as a hallowed right of students after the collapse of military rule in 1974. The main boulevards are peppered with freshly painted slogans some of which have not been seen since the height of the euro crisis. Students marching on parliament this afternoon pledged to step up protests over the weekend with many saying \u201cthe end of the government has arrived.\u201d\u201cThe government has miscalculated gravely on this. All Greece needs is a spark (to erupt) and this may be it,\u201d said a law school student who gave his name as Petros Pappas. Such fears are shared by older Greeks who expressed shock this afternoon at the level of violence used against Athens university on Thursday. \u201cThe violence last night against students protesting peacefully was disproportionate and shows that the government is very fearful of young people becoming the spark of a fire that it won\u2019t be able to comtrol,\u201d said Leonidas Aposkitis, aged 50, who marched through Athens after taking part in Thursday\u2019s demonstration.\n\n2.59pm GMT\n14:59\n\nAnd yet more positive news from the US economy.Consumer confidence rose to a seven year high in November (so far), helped by falling unemployment - as the Fed\u2019s James Bullard has been saying - and lower petrol prices.The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan first reading on its consumer sentiment index came in at 89.4, above the 87.5 reading expected by economists and up from the revised 86.9 seen in October.Outlook brightens for holiday shopping as retail sales outperform and consumer sentiment rises...gas prices are helping, to be sure.Updated\nat 3.08pm GMT\n\n\n2.48pm GMT\n14:48\n\nThe better than average performance of the US jobs market is inconsistent with interest rates at near zero, a member of the US Federal Reserve has said.Speaking to an audience in St Louis, Jame Bullard said he did not see low inflation readings as a reason to delay a move away from low rates. He said (courtesy Reuters):[Jobs growth] suggests that over the next year, it will become more and more difficult to point to labour market performance as a rationale for a near-zero policy rate.Bullard is a notable hawk but is currently a non-voting member of the Fed\u2019s rate setting committee, until 2016. Even so, the idea of rising US rates is gaining ground, hence the strength in the dollar.Fed\u2019s Bullard: Job Market Gains No Longer Justify Current Fed Policy: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis\u2026 http://t.co/QjjtQOIrjB WSJ\n\n2.37pm GMT\n14:37\n\nThe positive US figures is giving the dollar a lift, with sterling falling to a 14 month low against the US currency. Nicholas Ebisch, currency analyst at Caxton FX said:Retail sales data in the US beat expectations this afternoon, coming in at 0.3% when 0.2% was expected. This comes in along with a string of positive data for the US dollar. The dollar index is currently at 88.24, which is its highest point since mid-2010. The US economy continues to be the brighter spot in a global economy that is struggling with growth, thereby boosting the dollar continuously higher.\n\n1.45pm GMT\n13:45\n\nStill with the US, and import prices fell in September by 1.3%, the most in more than two years.The fall was due for the most part to lower costs for imported fuels following the recent crude price slump. The strong dollar also meant that it was cheaper for Americans to buy imports.Export prices fell 1%, as the global economy weakened.\n\n1.33pm GMT\n13:33\n\nOver to the US, and retail sales for October have come in better than expected, a positive sign of returning consumer confidence and good news for the economy ahead of the key Christmas shopping period.Retail sales - excluding volatile elements such as cars and gasoline - rose 0.5% last monthcompared to expectations of a 0.4% rise, and the biggest increase since August.Overall they rose 0.3%, higher than the expected 0.2% increase.Sales at food service and drinking places up 0.9% in October. Less spent at the pump. More spent at the bar. pic.twitter.com/JDH5IQvVdRUpdated\nat 1.40pm GMT\n\n\n1.17pm GMT\n13:17\n\nThe news that Greece has left recession comes as the country is gripped by scenes of protesting students.Our Athens correspondent, Helena Smith, explains:Tensions are very much on rise after overnight riots outside Athens Polytechnic (where the 1973 student uprising set in motion the events that lead to the fall of Greece\u2019s hated military regime) and a student take-over this morning of Thessaloniki University. As I write, students are marching through Athens.Protestors are up in arms over government\u2019s controversial decision to implement a lock-out at all tertiary education institutions in run-up to the anniversary this Monday. Usually, university students have used the three-day period set aside for commemorations to stage sit-ins (that are themselves often marked by clashes between left and right wing students). Tensions have been fueled by anger over tuition costs & other international-mandated educational cuts - and they show no sign of abating ahead of Monday\u2019s anniversary. Videos have been released that also depict riot police using excessive force to remove protestors from the scene of the Polytechnic last night. Riot police resorted to using tear gas and stun guns to remove students from the sight - without giving them any prior warning that they should get out of the way! Outside Athens University\u2019s law School tensions are also high today. On that note, I\u2019m handing over to my colleague Nick Fletcher.Updated\nat 1.45pm GMT\n\n\n1.03pm GMT\n13:03\n\nRichard Boxshall, senior economist at PwC, points out that Europe\u2019s core countries are now lagging behind the periphery, such as Spain and Greece. \u201cToday\u2019s figures show continued very sluggish growth in the eurozone, but it has avoided lapsing back into recession. The former powerhouse of the bloc, Germany, grew at a modest rate of just 0.1% in Q3, while France was the surprise with growth of 0.3%. However, the detailed data showed that the \u2018French surprise\u2019 was primarily driven by relatively strong government spending growth, which is unlikely to be sustainable in the medium term. Meanwhile, Italy has fallen back into a mild recession.\u201cIn contrast, most peripheral countries continue to grow at relatively strong rates with Greece growing seven times faster than Germany, closely followed by Spain and Portugal.\u201d\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nOur economics editor, Larry Elliott, writes that eurozone leaders must not shelter behind the fact that today\u2019s growth figures could have been worse.He writes:Policymakers are deluding themselves if they believe that narrowly avoiding recession is the same as being on the road to recovery. The eurozone today is starting to look worryingly like Japan in the 1990s: little growth, crippled banks, export dependent. All it lacks to make the comparison complete is deflation, and one further negative shock would make that a reality too.It\u2019s clear what the eurozone needs. It needs monetary activism from the ECB. It needs fiscal activism, both from individual countries and from pan-European institutions such as the European Investment Bank. It needs Germany to realise that generalised belt-tightening has been self-defeating. And it needs all those things fast.\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nA reminder that Germany and France are above their pre-crisis peaks, but the wider eurozone is not - and Italy\u2019s decline is quite alarming. *NEW POST* #graficodellasettimana: l\u2019#Europa che non cresce e l\u2019#Italia in #recessione > http://t.co/wWXnOJ79Ki #PIL pic.twitter.com/N3hsKclDI0", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Economics", "Banking", "European monetary union", "Financial sector"], "title": "Greece out of recession, as economy grows by 0.7% - eurozone GDP live"},{"date": "2014-12-28T12:23:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rescue services were facing a double emergency in the Adriatic after a ferry plying between Greece and Italy caught fire with at least 466 people on board and two merchant vessels collided off the north-eastern Italian port of Ravenna.According to conflicting reports, up to four people were missing following the collision and several were injured. The two ships \u2013 one Turkish and the other flying the flag of Belize \u2013 collided in thick fog.Rough seas between Albania and the heel of Italy were hampering efforts to evacuate a burning Italian ferry, on which hundreds of people were trapped.The Greek coastguard said 150 people had been rescued from the Italian-registered Norman Atlantic. The ferry sent a distress signal after fire broke out on its lower deck.The Italian news agency Ansa reported that the captain had told the Italian coastguard he could no longer control his vessel, which was drifting eastwards towards the Albanian shoreline north of the port of Vlora. The agency said the rescued passengers, including women and children, had been taken aboard a Greek ferry.Eight Italians suffering from hypothermia were reported to have been rescued and flown to the military airport in the south-eastern Italian region of Puglia. From there they were moved to a civilian hospital in the town of GalatinaThe rest of the passengers were reported to have taken refuge on the upper decks of the vessels. \u201cThe fire is still burning,\u201d Greek passenger Sofoklis Styliaras told Mega television. \u201cOn the lower deck, where the lifeboats are, our shoes were starting to melt from the heat \u2026 There\u2019s nowhere else for us to go. It\u2019s impossible to walk on the lower deck because of the heat.\u201dSeven merchant ships and an Italian coast guard vessel, were on the scene, ready to take on more passengers, while a firefighting tug dispatched from Brindisi was on its way to the area.Cold winter temperatures and winds gusting at up to 55mph made conditions difficult for rescuers.Greece\u2019s merchant marine minister, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, said the coastguard was in constant contact with Italian authorities and the Greek armed forces. \u201cWe are committed to rescuing everyone on the ship, and are trying to ensure that nobody will be left unaided,\u201d he said.Greek authorities said they had sent five helicopters and a military transport plane to the area to assist in the operation.The 26,904-tonne Norman Atlantic was built only five years ago.", "tags": ["Greece", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Ferry catches fire between Greece and Italy with hundreds on board"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:57:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is turning to the private sector to try to increase the profitability of some of its cultural treasures, including the Uffizi gallery in Florence and Borghese gallery in Rome.Under a new initiative sponsored by the government of the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, Italy\u2019s cultural centres are likely to begin to look more like other great museums around the world, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, by opening more restaurants, gift shops, ticket booths, guides, and other tourist-friendly additions that can start generating bigger profits.The museum decree, expected to be unveiled this week by Dario Franceschini, the culture minister, will create 18 new offices for the biggest artistic sites in the country.These offices will begin to accept private sector bids from Italian and international companies to build up some of the museums, with the aim of raising about \u20ac2bn (\u00a31.6bn) per year by 2017.It will be hard to do much worse than the current state of affairs, where only 190 of Italy\u2019s 450 state museums offer any additional facilities to tourists.Italy\u2019s museums and archaeological sites made only \u20ac380m in sales last year and, according to La Repubblica, generated profits of just \u20ac30m, or 50 cents per Italian citizen.By comparison, the Louvre in Paris, home of the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci, generated \u20ac2.5bn in sales last year.The Italian press reported that the restaurant at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in itself made more money alone than all of the Italian museums combined.\u201cWe\u2019ve inherited an intolerable situation,\u201d Franceschini said recently, according to La Repubblica. \u201cThere is no activity of the state that is even capable of running a bookshop.\u201dItaly is the fifth largest tourism destination in the world and hosted an estimated 47.7 million foreign visitors in 2013, according to the UN World Tourism Organisation rankings.For a country facing record unemployment and a third recession, the great artistic and cultural venues that are spread from Naples to Milan have long been seen as a possible cash cow.But change has been slow.In 2009, a former director of McDonald\u2019s called Mario Resca, who served as the general manager of Italy\u2019s state-run museums, caused a stir when he called for some of Italy\u2019s cultural centres, including the Colosseum, to be made available to private parties for special events.Now it is Franceschini who is trying to shake up the moribund Italian tourism sector, and that could lead to better services \u2013 and higher prices \u2013 for visitors.In July, Franceschini unveiled what were deemed to be revolutionary changes at the Uffizi, as well as at other state-owned museums, when he announced that only visitors under the age of 18 would be given free tickets and those under 25 would be given reduced tickets. Before the change, some senior citizens received steep discounts.Franceschini has also encouraged greater corporate involvement in the Italian arts. Earlier this month, the minister hailed Samsung Italia, a division of the South Korean conglomerate, for its \u20ac600,000 investment in the Gallerie dell\u2019Accademia, Venice.He said the investment in the museum ought to serve as an example to other companies looking to do their part to protect Italy\u2019s cultural heritage.The funds paved the way for the gallery to double its exhibition size to 10,000 sq m and will triple the number of expected visitors from 300,000 per year to 900,000.Not everyone is enamoured by the idea of museums seeking alternative ways to generate income, however.Marco Pierini, the director of the civic gallery in the northern city of Modena, resigned this month after his museum opened its doors to a food exhibition that showcased local specialities such as mortadella and balsamic vinegar.\u201cIt seems to me that to evict art and replace it with typical products, creates the image of a city that caters to consumer tourism, rather than thoughtful citizens,\u201d he said in his resignation letter.", "tags": ["Museums", "Culture", "Art and design", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy to bring private sector into its museums in effort to make a profit"},{"date": "2014-12-07T07:00:04Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A new drinking fad is taking hold across the boot: barmen are turning gourmet Italian food into crazy cocktails. If the thought of sipping cheese, onions or chilli peppers sounds disgusting to you, try one of these concoctions and you\u2019ll be amazed to find they are delicious.Milan\u2019s cool rooftop Armani Bamboo Bar offers a blue cheese daiquiri with a tiny morsel of Italian gorgonzola (on the verge of having maggots) that is shaken to squeeze out the juice. Just a delicate flavour lingers on your taste buds after each sip.Caprese Mary, a bloody Mary variant, replicates the well-known caprese salad: it\u2019s a mix of mozzarella foam, fresh basil and tomatoes.Tokio spritz is made with Aperol (Italy\u2019s top aperitif), wasabi and fresh ginger and is served alongside mozzarella braids and swordfish sandwiches. For dessert, the tiramisu martini is a heavenly, blissful drink.At Rome\u2019s Co.So Bar (via Braccio da Montone 80, no website), in the lively Pigneto neighbourhood, there\u2019s a wild pasta drink prepared by mixologist Massimo D\u2019Addezio. The carbonara sour uses all the ingredients of the Eternal City\u2019s speciality dish: a bacon-and-vodka sour infusion, egg white, black pepper and a piece of dried spaghetti called Zito, which is used as a straw.In Turin, at Smile Tree, mixologist Dennis Zoppi\u2019s extravagant mare e monti starter is a shot of vodka and a mix of olives, onions and chilli peppers served in a ceramic oyster half shell on ice, topped with truffle caviar. \u201cYou sip it from the corner where truffle lies,\u201d says Zoppi, \u201cand it triggers a flabbergasting result that teases the palate, pushing you straight to dinner.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Weekend breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Italian food and drink", "Food & drink", "Cocktails"], "title": "The foodie traveller: savoury cocktails in Italy"},{"date": "2014-10-21T12:59:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Donna Agata says: \u201cBuona sera! What a pleasure to see you again!\u201d as she emerges from behind her wooden counter. Her shop, nestled next to the imposing Chiesa Madre on the main square of this small Sicilian town, is hidden behind a screen of green climbers and creepers. A shelf with two crates of tomatoes (one for making sauce, the other for salads) is flanked by a cornucopia of terracotta pots.\u201cIf I decided to remove my plants\u201d, she says, \u201cVia Etnea would be as bare as a desert. They don\u2019t belong to the mayor, they are mine!\u201d A keen gardener, Donna Agata has made the traffic-laden main road into a mini-oasis. The shop is part of her house and the large back garden is full of her favourite plants. \u201cI\u2019ve been in this shop for 47 years,\u201d she tells me. \u201cMine is the last little shop in Mascalucia. The others have all disappeared.\u201dA wooden cabinet with glass doors, displaying various pulses, comes from Catania: \u201cit\u2019s 100 years old but I had it brought here because I like old things.\u201d She points out the photographs above the door: a clown sits at a garishly covered table for carnival, Christmas lights, the procession of San Giuseppe \u2013 all festivals that she has participated in, making her shop centre-stage. But many of these festivals no longer take place. \u201cThe priests are tired,\u201d she laments, implying that they can\u2019t be bothered with these traditions. Donna Agata keeps much more alive than her plants: she has nearly half a century\u2019s worth of stories and memories as well as being the custodian of dying local folklore.On Easter Sunday, there used to be a procession from San Vito church up to the next village on the foothills of Etna; old and young used to follow on foot. \u201cBut the priests are tired\u201d, she repeats. The procession no longer takes place.The last large town situated on Via Etnea \u2013 the straight Roman road that leads from Catania to the \u201cmountain\u201d \u2013 Mascalucia used to comprise little more than the two churches, a town hall and numerous villas. Chosen for its cooler climate, it has long been a holiday resort. Plush villas with walled gardens abound as do the titles of their owners: barons, baronesses and even a prince. Gardens peek above high walls with plants cascading over the edge, Babylon-style: palm and citrus trees, jasmine, bougainvillea, wisteria. Lava arches carved with plant motifs frame iron gates, allowing one to catch a glimpse of otherwise very private enclosures. Thanks to Donna Agata, there is still some green to please the public eye.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Letter from Italy: a green oasis"},{"date": "2014-10-04T06:00:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Brace your taste buds for Calabria\u2019s chilli festival: five days of food, fun and fiery spice each September in the pretty seaside town of Diamante. The old town and waterfront are thronged with stalls selling chillies in every conceivable incarnation. peperoncinofestival.orgmarthahThe village of Sp\u00edlinga, south of Tropea, is a great place to be in August, for the Sagra della \u2019Nduja, celebrating the spicy Calabrian sausage. Street theatre, dance and music climax in a fantastic firework display over an ancient monastery.goncaThe Palio cui Ciucci (donkey palio) is the centrepiece of the Ferragosto celebrations in the village of Laino Borgo, in the north of Calabria. Young men from each district of the town race donkeys around the track and the winning district throws a street party for the rest of the community. paliucuiciucci.altervista.orgayshekThis walled hilltop village, a few steep, twisting miles inland from Badolato Marina, is a relaxing and friendly place. Local wine and foods are available in shops and markets, and there are Greek and Roman ruins to visit. Ionian1This craggy national park sits at the border of Calabria and Basilicata. There are associations organising trekking tours on these wild mountains, explaining the geological and archaeological secrets.parcopollino.gov.itkorafri1Tropea is often regarded as Calabria\u2019s jewel, the most picturesque of its towns. I would recommend staying in an apartment at the Marasusa holiday village. It has some of the best views I\u2019ve seen anywhere, especially the sunset behind the volcanic island of Stromboli.marasusatropea.com, apartments sleeping five from \u00a3220 a weekLynn GreenmanThe hairpin route from the village of Palmi down to Marinella beach is as nail-biting as it is panoramic. The beach is a narrow strip of white pebbles which renders the water a hyper-real shade of turquoise, deepening to violet towards the horizon, hence the name Costa Viola. South-west of town on Via Marinella ID3208844A few kilometres from the coastal resort of Marina di Caulonia lies Le Cascate, a dramatic waterfall set against the backdrop of towering mountains and a wide flood plain. Children enjoy leaping from the waterfall while others cool off in the deep pools. Kathryn HayClimb the steep steps to the old town for spectacular views of leaping dolphins from a haunting 11th-century Benedictine monastery, then dine alfresco on delicious fresh swordfish at friendly Tropea Vecchia. Heavenly.4 Largo Barone, +39 0963 61899 nicolettaThe tiny village of Padula, north of Cosenza, is the home of Volante, a wine that rarely makes it out of the town limits, let alone the country. Harvested from a strain of the Isabella grape (vitis labrusca) known locally as Scherzo (joke), it is frowned upon by the EU, which insists that all wines be made from grapes from the vitis vinifera family. Peikko", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Food and drink", "Italian food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Highlights of Calabria, Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2014-12-17T09:56:06Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A convertible Mini doesn\u2019t have a massive amount of legroom in the back. I don\u2019t care \u2013 I would have sacrificed comfort for a ride around Italy with Rob Brydon and Steve Coogan, singing along to Alanis Morissette, in the voice of Roger Moore; playing Byron and Shelley, possibly having a romantic liaison, with a younger lady; certainly having lunch, at lovely restaurants, while discussing eating Mo Farah\u2019s legs (over Stephen Hawking\u2019s) after an Andean plane crash; or just bickering and bantering about our mid-life crises. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever wanted to be on a TV show so much (well, perhaps Entourage, but that\u2019s even less likely).Failing that, just watching The Trip to Italy was enough, as it was about as good as television got last year. Genuinely original, interesting television. Director Michael Winterbottom, with a lot of help from Coogan and Brydon, has taken the travelogue and not just breathed new life into it but set the defibrillator on it, too.Is it a travelogue, though? They\u2019re in Italy, and it\u2019s a little bit about Italy, but not very much. It\u2019s a food show, but not really about food. How much is scripted? Is there any reality? Have they reinvented scripted reality, too? Are we even watching the real Steve Coogan and the real Rob Brydon?None of which really matters, because there are plenty of truths in there, about getting on a bit and being a bloke, about work insecurities, family, mortality. Friendship, too, and that does appear to be real \u2013 in spite of all the bickering, there seems to be genuine warmth between them.Maybe that\u2019s what it mostly is, then: buddy television, a couple of moderately famous middle-aged mates arsing about in Italy, pretending to be people who are more famous. Oh yeah, that\u2019s the other thing they\u2019ve reinvented \u2013 the impression. In a way that makes it OK to do them again. Post-impressionists, you might call them. So they don\u2019t just do Michael Caine, they have a Michael Caine-Off. Or the previously mentioned singalong, in which the real Steve Coogan is being a sort of fictional (although probably pretty real) Steve Coogan, being Roger Moore, being Alanis Morissette: \u201cAnd I\u2019m here to remind you/ Of the mess you left when you went away \u2026\u201d Hahahahaha.Rory Bremner, Alistair McGowan et al must be tearing their hair out. Hey, that\u2019s another TV idea. If there\u2019s another Trip \u2013 The Trip to Somewhere Else \u2013 they could get a coach to follow Rob and Steve around, and fill it with all the people who have been rendered redundant by the two men in the Mini in front, then make a BBC3 reality spin-off out of that. Not just impressionists, but pious celebrity traveloggers, and dull foody people. Rick Stein, basically. There might even be room for a jealous television critic on there, and I\u2019d get to go along after all, just a little further behind than I\u2019d hoped. Steve and Rob could toss us any scraps from their expensive restaurant lunches to fight over. It could be called The Trip: Doggy Bag. Sign in to let us know your favourite TV show of 2014.", "tags": ["Comedy", "The Trip to Italy", "Television", "Culture", "Comedy", "Television & radio", "Steve Coogan", "Rob Brydon"], "title": "Best TV of 2014: No 5 \u2013 The Trip to Italy"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-14T17:52:21Z", "country": "italy", "content": "\n\n5.52pm GMT\n17:52\n\nSlightly better than expected economic growth figures from France and Germany, and indeed the overall eurozone number as well, have helped support markets ahead of this weekend\u2019s G20 meeting. Greece exited recession, which added to the positive mood, but on the other hand, Italy fell back again. Overall though, it was a fairly upbeat end to the week. The final scores showed:On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is currently down 15 points or 0.09%.On that note, it\u2019s time to close up for the evening. Thanks for all your comments, have a good weekend and we\u2019ll be back on Monday.\n\n4.17pm GMT\n16:17\n\nMore on the protests in Greece from Helena Smith:Greek students have left a trail of banners and graffiti behind them as they marched through Athens this afternoon. In a display of their dermination against a government they now accuse of employing heavy -handed tactics, in addition to selling out to international creditors, this banner in front of Athens University reads: \u201cPolice get out from the university. Hands off asylum and down with the government\u201d and demands that the rector of the school immediately resigns. Ahead of commemorations marking the 1973 Polytechnic Uprising, the rector has refused to grant students access to university campuses - the asylum long seen as a hallowed right of students after the collapse of military rule in 1974. The main boulevards are peppered with freshly painted slogans some of which have not been seen since the height of the euro crisis. Students marching on parliament this afternoon pledged to step up protests over the weekend with many saying \u201cthe end of the government has arrived.\u201d\u201cThe government has miscalculated gravely on this. All Greece needs is a spark (to erupt) and this may be it,\u201d said a law school student who gave his name as Petros Pappas. Such fears are shared by older Greeks who expressed shock this afternoon at the level of violence used against Athens university on Thursday. \u201cThe violence last night against students protesting peacefully was disproportionate and shows that the government is very fearful of young people becoming the spark of a fire that it won\u2019t be able to comtrol,\u201d said Leonidas Aposkitis, aged 50, who marched through Athens after taking part in Thursday\u2019s demonstration.\n\n2.59pm GMT\n14:59\n\nAnd yet more positive news from the US economy.Consumer confidence rose to a seven year high in November (so far), helped by falling unemployment - as the Fed\u2019s James Bullard has been saying - and lower petrol prices.The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan first reading on its consumer sentiment index came in at 89.4, above the 87.5 reading expected by economists and up from the revised 86.9 seen in October.Outlook brightens for holiday shopping as retail sales outperform and consumer sentiment rises...gas prices are helping, to be sure.Updated\nat 3.08pm GMT\n\n\n2.48pm GMT\n14:48\n\nThe better than average performance of the US jobs market is inconsistent with interest rates at near zero, a member of the US Federal Reserve has said.Speaking to an audience in St Louis, Jame Bullard said he did not see low inflation readings as a reason to delay a move away from low rates. He said (courtesy Reuters):[Jobs growth] suggests that over the next year, it will become more and more difficult to point to labour market performance as a rationale for a near-zero policy rate.Bullard is a notable hawk but is currently a non-voting member of the Fed\u2019s rate setting committee, until 2016. Even so, the idea of rising US rates is gaining ground, hence the strength in the dollar.Fed\u2019s Bullard: Job Market Gains No Longer Justify Current Fed Policy: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis\u2026 http://t.co/QjjtQOIrjB WSJ\n\n2.37pm GMT\n14:37\n\nThe positive US figures is giving the dollar a lift, with sterling falling to a 14 month low against the US currency. Nicholas Ebisch, currency analyst at Caxton FX said:Retail sales data in the US beat expectations this afternoon, coming in at 0.3% when 0.2% was expected. This comes in along with a string of positive data for the US dollar. The dollar index is currently at 88.24, which is its highest point since mid-2010. The US economy continues to be the brighter spot in a global economy that is struggling with growth, thereby boosting the dollar continuously higher.\n\n1.45pm GMT\n13:45\n\nStill with the US, and import prices fell in September by 1.3%, the most in more than two years.The fall was due for the most part to lower costs for imported fuels following the recent crude price slump. The strong dollar also meant that it was cheaper for Americans to buy imports.Export prices fell 1%, as the global economy weakened.\n\n1.33pm GMT\n13:33\n\nOver to the US, and retail sales for October have come in better than expected, a positive sign of returning consumer confidence and good news for the economy ahead of the key Christmas shopping period.Retail sales - excluding volatile elements such as cars and gasoline - rose 0.5% last monthcompared to expectations of a 0.4% rise, and the biggest increase since August.Overall they rose 0.3%, higher than the expected 0.2% increase.Sales at food service and drinking places up 0.9% in October. Less spent at the pump. More spent at the bar. pic.twitter.com/JDH5IQvVdRUpdated\nat 1.40pm GMT\n\n\n1.17pm GMT\n13:17\n\nThe news that Greece has left recession comes as the country is gripped by scenes of protesting students.Our Athens correspondent, Helena Smith, explains:Tensions are very much on rise after overnight riots outside Athens Polytechnic (where the 1973 student uprising set in motion the events that lead to the fall of Greece\u2019s hated military regime) and a student take-over this morning of Thessaloniki University. As I write, students are marching through Athens.Protestors are up in arms over government\u2019s controversial decision to implement a lock-out at all tertiary education institutions in run-up to the anniversary this Monday. Usually, university students have used the three-day period set aside for commemorations to stage sit-ins (that are themselves often marked by clashes between left and right wing students). Tensions have been fueled by anger over tuition costs & other international-mandated educational cuts - and they show no sign of abating ahead of Monday\u2019s anniversary. Videos have been released that also depict riot police using excessive force to remove protestors from the scene of the Polytechnic last night. Riot police resorted to using tear gas and stun guns to remove students from the sight - without giving them any prior warning that they should get out of the way! Outside Athens University\u2019s law School tensions are also high today. On that note, I\u2019m handing over to my colleague Nick Fletcher.Updated\nat 1.45pm GMT\n\n\n1.03pm GMT\n13:03\n\nRichard Boxshall, senior economist at PwC, points out that Europe\u2019s core countries are now lagging behind the periphery, such as Spain and Greece. \u201cToday\u2019s figures show continued very sluggish growth in the eurozone, but it has avoided lapsing back into recession. The former powerhouse of the bloc, Germany, grew at a modest rate of just 0.1% in Q3, while France was the surprise with growth of 0.3%. However, the detailed data showed that the \u2018French surprise\u2019 was primarily driven by relatively strong government spending growth, which is unlikely to be sustainable in the medium term. Meanwhile, Italy has fallen back into a mild recession.\u201cIn contrast, most peripheral countries continue to grow at relatively strong rates with Greece growing seven times faster than Germany, closely followed by Spain and Portugal.\u201d\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nOur economics editor, Larry Elliott, writes that eurozone leaders must not shelter behind the fact that today\u2019s growth figures could have been worse.He writes:Policymakers are deluding themselves if they believe that narrowly avoiding recession is the same as being on the road to recovery. The eurozone today is starting to look worryingly like Japan in the 1990s: little growth, crippled banks, export dependent. All it lacks to make the comparison complete is deflation, and one further negative shock would make that a reality too.It\u2019s clear what the eurozone needs. It needs monetary activism from the ECB. It needs fiscal activism, both from individual countries and from pan-European institutions such as the European Investment Bank. It needs Germany to realise that generalised belt-tightening has been self-defeating. And it needs all those things fast.\n\n12.02pm GMT\n12:02\n\nA reminder that Germany and France are above their pre-crisis peaks, but the wider eurozone is not - and Italy\u2019s decline is quite alarming. *NEW POST* #graficodellasettimana: l\u2019#Europa che non cresce e l\u2019#Italia in #recessione > http://t.co/wWXnOJ79Ki #PIL pic.twitter.com/N3hsKclDI0", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Economics", "Banking", "European monetary union", "Financial sector"], "title": "Greece out of recession, as economy grows by 0.7% - eurozone GDP live"},{"date": "2014-12-28T12:23:15Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Rescue services were facing a double emergency in the Adriatic after a ferry plying between Greece and Italy caught fire with at least 466 people on board and two merchant vessels collided off the north-eastern Italian port of Ravenna.According to conflicting reports, up to four people were missing following the collision and several were injured. The two ships \u2013 one Turkish and the other flying the flag of Belize \u2013 collided in thick fog.Rough seas between Albania and the heel of Italy were hampering efforts to evacuate a burning Italian ferry, on which hundreds of people were trapped.The Greek coastguard said 150 people had been rescued from the Italian-registered Norman Atlantic. The ferry sent a distress signal after fire broke out on its lower deck.The Italian news agency Ansa reported that the captain had told the Italian coastguard he could no longer control his vessel, which was drifting eastwards towards the Albanian shoreline north of the port of Vlora. The agency said the rescued passengers, including women and children, had been taken aboard a Greek ferry.Eight Italians suffering from hypothermia were reported to have been rescued and flown to the military airport in the south-eastern Italian region of Puglia. From there they were moved to a civilian hospital in the town of GalatinaThe rest of the passengers were reported to have taken refuge on the upper decks of the vessels. \u201cThe fire is still burning,\u201d Greek passenger Sofoklis Styliaras told Mega television. \u201cOn the lower deck, where the lifeboats are, our shoes were starting to melt from the heat \u2026 There\u2019s nowhere else for us to go. It\u2019s impossible to walk on the lower deck because of the heat.\u201dSeven merchant ships and an Italian coast guard vessel, were on the scene, ready to take on more passengers, while a firefighting tug dispatched from Brindisi was on its way to the area.Cold winter temperatures and winds gusting at up to 55mph made conditions difficult for rescuers.Greece\u2019s merchant marine minister, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, said the coastguard was in constant contact with Italian authorities and the Greek armed forces. \u201cWe are committed to rescuing everyone on the ship, and are trying to ensure that nobody will be left unaided,\u201d he said.Greek authorities said they had sent five helicopters and a military transport plane to the area to assist in the operation.The 26,904-tonne Norman Atlantic was built only five years ago.", "tags": ["Greece", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Ferry catches fire between Greece and Italy with hundreds on board"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:57:14Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is turning to the private sector to try to increase the profitability of some of its cultural treasures, including the Uffizi gallery in Florence and Borghese gallery in Rome.Under a new initiative sponsored by the government of the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, Italy\u2019s cultural centres are likely to begin to look more like other great museums around the world, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, by opening more restaurants, gift shops, ticket booths, guides, and other tourist-friendly additions that can start generating bigger profits.The museum decree, expected to be unveiled this week by Dario Franceschini, the culture minister, will create 18 new offices for the biggest artistic sites in the country.These offices will begin to accept private sector bids from Italian and international companies to build up some of the museums, with the aim of raising about \u20ac2bn (\u00a31.6bn) per year by 2017.It will be hard to do much worse than the current state of affairs, where only 190 of Italy\u2019s 450 state museums offer any additional facilities to tourists.Italy\u2019s museums and archaeological sites made only \u20ac380m in sales last year and, according to La Repubblica, generated profits of just \u20ac30m, or 50 cents per Italian citizen.By comparison, the Louvre in Paris, home of the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci, generated \u20ac2.5bn in sales last year.The Italian press reported that the restaurant at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in itself made more money alone than all of the Italian museums combined.\u201cWe\u2019ve inherited an intolerable situation,\u201d Franceschini said recently, according to La Repubblica. \u201cThere is no activity of the state that is even capable of running a bookshop.\u201dItaly is the fifth largest tourism destination in the world and hosted an estimated 47.7 million foreign visitors in 2013, according to the UN World Tourism Organisation rankings.For a country facing record unemployment and a third recession, the great artistic and cultural venues that are spread from Naples to Milan have long been seen as a possible cash cow.But change has been slow.In 2009, a former director of McDonald\u2019s called Mario Resca, who served as the general manager of Italy\u2019s state-run museums, caused a stir when he called for some of Italy\u2019s cultural centres, including the Colosseum, to be made available to private parties for special events.Now it is Franceschini who is trying to shake up the moribund Italian tourism sector, and that could lead to better services \u2013 and higher prices \u2013 for visitors.In July, Franceschini unveiled what were deemed to be revolutionary changes at the Uffizi, as well as at other state-owned museums, when he announced that only visitors under the age of 18 would be given free tickets and those under 25 would be given reduced tickets. Before the change, some senior citizens received steep discounts.Franceschini has also encouraged greater corporate involvement in the Italian arts. Earlier this month, the minister hailed Samsung Italia, a division of the South Korean conglomerate, for its \u20ac600,000 investment in the Gallerie dell\u2019Accademia, Venice.He said the investment in the museum ought to serve as an example to other companies looking to do their part to protect Italy\u2019s cultural heritage.The funds paved the way for the gallery to double its exhibition size to 10,000 sq m and will triple the number of expected visitors from 300,000 per year to 900,000.Not everyone is enamoured by the idea of museums seeking alternative ways to generate income, however.Marco Pierini, the director of the civic gallery in the northern city of Modena, resigned this month after his museum opened its doors to a food exhibition that showcased local specialities such as mortadella and balsamic vinegar.\u201cIt seems to me that to evict art and replace it with typical products, creates the image of a city that caters to consumer tourism, rather than thoughtful citizens,\u201d he said in his resignation letter.", "tags": ["Museums", "Culture", "Art and design", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italy to bring private sector into its museums in effort to make a profit"},{"date": "2014-11-06T11:05:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "France, Germany and Italy must agree to jolt the eurozone economy back to life or face a long period of low growth, low inflation and an increasing debt burden, according to a stinging report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).The Paris-based thinktank, which counts the world\u2019s major trading states as members, said Spain and other smaller countries had shown the way by pushing through reforms to reorganise their economies while the core nations were locked in discussions over how to lift growth.Speaking before a meeting of world leaders at the G20 summit in Brisbane, Australia, this month, the OECD\u2019s chief economist said eurozone governments needed to support efforts by the European central bank to lower borrowing costs in addition to boosting public spending on education and infrastructure investment.Catherine Mann said: \u201cFiscal spending in the near term to support innovation, education, and infrastructure will both support near-term growth as well as turn back the legacy of low potential output and complement the engines of trade and investment.\u201dShe praised Spain and other countries hit hard by the 2008 financial crisis for restructuring their banking sectors and driving down labour costs to revitalise the economy. She said the continent\u2019s core countries needed to unlock the potential for growth in their economies with a similar programme of reform.The prospect of a long period of stagnation in Europe has created unease in political circles, where it is seen as fuelling extreme political groups and the possible break-up of the single currency zone. Minor parties in Italy, France and Sweden seeking greater national independence have expanded their influence in recent months, while Ukip forms the largest group of British MEPs in the European parliament.Low growth in the continent is also seen as hindering the prospects for a global recovery. The US and the UK have suffered a sharp fall in exports to the 18-member eurozone, while China has found it more difficult to push through reforms at a time when Europe, one of its major trading partners, remains moribund.The OECD report said the recovery from the 2008 crisis was fragile and had been undermined by a lack of action by governments. \u201cThere are substantial downside risks to the outlook. Risks of financial instability remain high, while volatility may increase, notably for emerging markets, as monetary policy and economic activity differ across the major economies,\u201d it said.\u201cDebt levels are high by past standards, and some emerging economies have significantly increased external financial exposure. Because the growth of potential output has slowed in major economies since the crisis, future trend growth may be weaker than anticipated.\u201dMann said she was optimistic that policymakers in Europe would implement agreed reforms after a string of poor economic figures. She said the need for action was unambiguous and leaders would be unable to argue against taking action.Berlin is locked in a dispute with Paris and Rome over plans to breach spending limits to boost spending on infrastructure and business subsidies to spur investment and restructure the banking sectors. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has argued against allowing more leeway before reaching budget targets set by Brussels, seemingly against the advice of the OECD.Mann said world leaders had enough plans on the table to boost G20 GDP by about 2% by 2018, equivalent to an extra $1.6tn of income.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "France", "Banking", "Europe", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business", "World news", "Germany", "Italy", "Spain"], "title": "France, Germany and Italy urged to follow Spain\u2019s lead to revive eurozone"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-16T00:28:45Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Michele Ferrero, who built up a sweet fortune with his Nutella empire, died on Saturday with a legacy lauded by the Italian president and chocolate lovers globally.Ferrero, 89, died in Monte Carlo after months of illness, leaving a country that had grown up on his chocolate creations in mourning. \u201cWe are proud of you. Thank you, Michele,\u201d read a note on the website of Ferrero, the family business started by his father, Pietro, in 1942.Italy\u2019s president, Sergio Mattarella, sent a telegram to the family to express his deep emotion on learning of the billionaire confectioner\u2019s death. \u201cFerrero was for many years a champion of Italian business, always succeeding in keeping up with the times thanks to innovative products and his hard work and reserved [nature]. Italians remember him with gratitude, also for his work supporting and promoting culture,\u201d Mattarella wrote.Local press described the \u201cgreat upset\u201d in his home town of Alba, in north-west Italy, where Ferrero\u2019s business empire was born. \u201cItalian industry grieves for one of its great protagonists,\u201d the Gazzetta d\u2019Alba said.In a country beset by economic woes, where the wealthy have come under fire for their lavish lifestyles and countless corruption scandals, the outpouring of grief for Italy\u2019s richest man may seem out of place. Ferrero\u2019s net worth was estimated as $23.4bn (\u00a315.2bn), making him \u201cthe richest candyman on the planet\u201d according to Forbes. But by shunning the limelight and becoming the key driver of the global success of the business, he commanded great respect at home and abroad.He took over the family firm from his pastry-maker father, who in the 1940s began blending hazelnuts and cocoa into a chocolatey mix that was ultimately christened Nutella. When Ferrero took over, he went against common wisdom and drove an ambitious international agenda.In an interview released after his death, Ferrero recounted the \u201cmoving\u201d moment he brought cherry chocolates called Mon Ch\u00e9ri to Germany. \u201cWhen we arrived it was after the war, a country still full of ruins with the signs of the conflict, sad, depressed, in which Italians were viewed very badly,\u201d he told Italian daily La Stampa. \u201cI thought of something that would raise morale, that each day could sweeten the lives of the Germans \u2026 at a price accessible to everyone.\u201dWinning over post-war Europeans with Mon Ch\u00e9ri was the start of success abroad, cemented in 1983 when the first tub of Nutella arrived in the US. Ferrero Rocher chocolates had been created a year earlier, to be forever associated with ambassadors\u2019 parties thanks to TV adverts.While Ferrero\u2019s son Giovanni took over the business, he was said to have never retired. Speaking softly, he revealed his secret to La Stampa: \u201cAlways act differently to the others, have faith, stay strong and put customers at the centre each day.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Food & drink", "World news"], "title": "Italy mourns Nutella creator Michele Ferrero"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-16T00:28:45Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Michele Ferrero, who built up a sweet fortune with his Nutella empire, died on Saturday with a legacy lauded by the Italian president and chocolate lovers globally.Ferrero, 89, died in Monte Carlo after months of illness, leaving a country that had grown up on his chocolate creations in mourning. \u201cWe are proud of you. Thank you, Michele,\u201d read a note on the website of Ferrero, the family business started by his father, Pietro, in 1942.Italy\u2019s president, Sergio Mattarella, sent a telegram to the family to express his deep emotion on learning of the billionaire confectioner\u2019s death. \u201cFerrero was for many years a champion of Italian business, always succeeding in keeping up with the times thanks to innovative products and his hard work and reserved [nature]. Italians remember him with gratitude, also for his work supporting and promoting culture,\u201d Mattarella wrote.Local press described the \u201cgreat upset\u201d in his home town of Alba, in north-west Italy, where Ferrero\u2019s business empire was born. \u201cItalian industry grieves for one of its great protagonists,\u201d the Gazzetta d\u2019Alba said.In a country beset by economic woes, where the wealthy have come under fire for their lavish lifestyles and countless corruption scandals, the outpouring of grief for Italy\u2019s richest man may seem out of place. Ferrero\u2019s net worth was estimated as $23.4bn (\u00a315.2bn), making him \u201cthe richest candyman on the planet\u201d according to Forbes. But by shunning the limelight and becoming the key driver of the global success of the business, he commanded great respect at home and abroad.He took over the family firm from his pastry-maker father, who in the 1940s began blending hazelnuts and cocoa into a chocolatey mix that was ultimately christened Nutella. When Ferrero took over, he went against common wisdom and drove an ambitious international agenda.In an interview released after his death, Ferrero recounted the \u201cmoving\u201d moment he brought cherry chocolates called Mon Ch\u00e9ri to Germany. \u201cWhen we arrived it was after the war, a country still full of ruins with the signs of the conflict, sad, depressed, in which Italians were viewed very badly,\u201d he told Italian daily La Stampa. \u201cI thought of something that would raise morale, that each day could sweeten the lives of the Germans \u2026 at a price accessible to everyone.\u201dWinning over post-war Europeans with Mon Ch\u00e9ri was the start of success abroad, cemented in 1983 when the first tub of Nutella arrived in the US. Ferrero Rocher chocolates had been created a year earlier, to be forever associated with ambassadors\u2019 parties thanks to TV adverts.While Ferrero\u2019s son Giovanni took over the business, he was said to have never retired. Speaking softly, he revealed his secret to La Stampa: \u201cAlways act differently to the others, have faith, stay strong and put customers at the centre each day.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Food & drink", "World news"], "title": "Italy mourns Nutella creator Michele Ferrero"},{"date": "2015-01-18T12:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It is my birthday and I am in a candlelit, monastic-feeling dining room with 11 strangers, eating in silence. For 45 minutes, over a four-course meal and, thankfully, plenty of red wine, we wordlessly appreciate the excellent food, to a background of Ennio Morricone\u2019s increasingly manic soundtrack to 1986 film The Mission. I have to stifle giggles as everyone resorts to exaggerated gestures and cartoonish facial expressions to show gratitude for the passing of a bread basket or water jug, and eventually I fail to suppress a sneeze which breaks the peace.I\u2019ve chosen this somewhat humourless way of celebrating to road-test the latest travel fad: the digital detox. In this age of information overload, holidaymakers increasingly perfer a break from the treadmill of technological lives filled with 24/7 notifications and spam. Got it bad like me? Time to check in to eco-hotel Eremito \u2013 the name comes from eremita, meaning hermit \u2013 in rolling Umbrian hills south-west of Perugia.Quite how remote the place is becomes clear two hours into our journey from Rome. Suddenly, our smart people carrier pulls up and we are transferred to a battered Jeep. The final stretch up a dirt track that follows is a series of bumps, near-vertical slopes and, at one point, driving straight through a river. The sight of the hotel coming in to view is a relief. As is the lack of phone signal.We enter through a narrow cloister-like passage: there are tiny spotlights in the floor that resemble tea lights, and real candles too, about 400 of them. An overpowering aroma of incense and the sound of Gregorian chant fill the air. The lobby is full of rugs and cushion seating, with a fire crackling in one corner.As owner Marcello Murzilli is showing us around the hotel, a storm breaks outside \u2013 as if ordered to enhance the atmosphere. Murzilli, a fashion designer who set up the eco-friendly Hotelito Desconocido on Mexico\u2019s Pacific coast, is a warm and welcoming host. He explains the philosophy behind the experience as we sit in a small chapel at the top of the building. \u201cIn the middle of nature we are nothing,\u201d he says. Lightning flashes at the windows as he speaks.The hotel is aimed at solo travellers, which means that even if you visit as a couple, you have to sleep apart. \u201cEat, pray, but don\u2019t love,\u201d as one of my fellow guests astutely puts it. The nine-square-metre rooms or celluzze, based on monastic cells, are simple but impeccably designed. A desk and chair are cut out of the local stone which has been used to cave-like effect to build this hermit\u2019s paradise. Traditional hemp-yarn sheets are not particularly soft but aesthetically perfect, even though they\u2019re a nightmare to wash, apparently. Light fittings have been handmade by artisans. It\u2019s all very Instragramable - if there was Wi-Fi.There is something oddly luxurious about the simplicity of the place, which makes it an apt addition to the Design Hotels roster. Murzilli is interested in \u201cthe spirit of the essential\u201d as a counter to the \u201cmany things in life we don\u2019t appreciate\u201d. His decade of research before opening the hotel a year ago involved visits to no fewer than 50 monasteries, and he believes he has come up with the perfect contemporary interpretation. A priest has been for a tour and approved. His dream guest would be Pope Francis.Time at Eremito is best spent making the most of what is on offer within the walls, including the yoga and meditative spa facilities. But if you get cabin-feverish, the hotel is surrounded by nature. On a riverside walk from the edge of the grounds we spot wild asparagus and fennel growing in abundance; an overpowering scent of wild mint fills the air as green woodpeckers swoop by.It would be a shame to venture further afield and miss a meal, as the room price is full-board. Food is vegetarian, unfussy and for the most part locally grown and homemade: Tuscan bean soup, very apt strozzapreti (or \u201cpriest-choker\u201d) pasta, and salads, all with lashings of olive oil. The only meal taken in silence is dinner, which is a bit awkward at first but almost pleasurable once you\u2019ve got the knack of it.There is no spiritual awakening for me, but even a couple of days at Eremito is quite an intense experience \u2013 I don\u2019t envy the German woman who has booked in for a fortnight. Yet after a soak in the Jacuzzi and a nap on the sun terrace looking out over the valley, I am feeling genuinely refreshed, and not just because of the lack of contact with the outside world.Whether you are cut out for the monk\u2019s life or not, this is an ideal place to go to take some time out and recharge.\u2022 The trip was provided by Design Hotels; rooms at the Eremito from \u00a3164pp pn full-board", "tags": ["Umbria holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Luxury travel"], "title": "A digital detox in Umbria, Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-16T00:28:45Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Michele Ferrero, who built up a sweet fortune with his Nutella empire, died on Saturday with a legacy lauded by the Italian president and chocolate lovers globally.Ferrero, 89, died in Monte Carlo after months of illness, leaving a country that had grown up on his chocolate creations in mourning. \u201cWe are proud of you. Thank you, Michele,\u201d read a note on the website of Ferrero, the family business started by his father, Pietro, in 1942.Italy\u2019s president, Sergio Mattarella, sent a telegram to the family to express his deep emotion on learning of the billionaire confectioner\u2019s death. \u201cFerrero was for many years a champion of Italian business, always succeeding in keeping up with the times thanks to innovative products and his hard work and reserved [nature]. Italians remember him with gratitude, also for his work supporting and promoting culture,\u201d Mattarella wrote.Local press described the \u201cgreat upset\u201d in his home town of Alba, in north-west Italy, where Ferrero\u2019s business empire was born. \u201cItalian industry grieves for one of its great protagonists,\u201d the Gazzetta d\u2019Alba said.In a country beset by economic woes, where the wealthy have come under fire for their lavish lifestyles and countless corruption scandals, the outpouring of grief for Italy\u2019s richest man may seem out of place. Ferrero\u2019s net worth was estimated as $23.4bn (\u00a315.2bn), making him \u201cthe richest candyman on the planet\u201d according to Forbes. But by shunning the limelight and becoming the key driver of the global success of the business, he commanded great respect at home and abroad.He took over the family firm from his pastry-maker father, who in the 1940s began blending hazelnuts and cocoa into a chocolatey mix that was ultimately christened Nutella. When Ferrero took over, he went against common wisdom and drove an ambitious international agenda.In an interview released after his death, Ferrero recounted the \u201cmoving\u201d moment he brought cherry chocolates called Mon Ch\u00e9ri to Germany. \u201cWhen we arrived it was after the war, a country still full of ruins with the signs of the conflict, sad, depressed, in which Italians were viewed very badly,\u201d he told Italian daily La Stampa. \u201cI thought of something that would raise morale, that each day could sweeten the lives of the Germans \u2026 at a price accessible to everyone.\u201dWinning over post-war Europeans with Mon Ch\u00e9ri was the start of success abroad, cemented in 1983 when the first tub of Nutella arrived in the US. Ferrero Rocher chocolates had been created a year earlier, to be forever associated with ambassadors\u2019 parties thanks to TV adverts.While Ferrero\u2019s son Giovanni took over the business, he was said to have never retired. Speaking softly, he revealed his secret to La Stampa: \u201cAlways act differently to the others, have faith, stay strong and put customers at the centre each day.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Food & drink", "World news"], "title": "Italy mourns Nutella creator Michele Ferrero"},{"date": "2015-01-18T12:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It is my birthday and I am in a candlelit, monastic-feeling dining room with 11 strangers, eating in silence. For 45 minutes, over a four-course meal and, thankfully, plenty of red wine, we wordlessly appreciate the excellent food, to a background of Ennio Morricone\u2019s increasingly manic soundtrack to 1986 film The Mission. I have to stifle giggles as everyone resorts to exaggerated gestures and cartoonish facial expressions to show gratitude for the passing of a bread basket or water jug, and eventually I fail to suppress a sneeze which breaks the peace.I\u2019ve chosen this somewhat humourless way of celebrating to road-test the latest travel fad: the digital detox. In this age of information overload, holidaymakers increasingly perfer a break from the treadmill of technological lives filled with 24/7 notifications and spam. Got it bad like me? Time to check in to eco-hotel Eremito \u2013 the name comes from eremita, meaning hermit \u2013 in rolling Umbrian hills south-west of Perugia.Quite how remote the place is becomes clear two hours into our journey from Rome. Suddenly, our smart people carrier pulls up and we are transferred to a battered Jeep. The final stretch up a dirt track that follows is a series of bumps, near-vertical slopes and, at one point, driving straight through a river. The sight of the hotel coming in to view is a relief. As is the lack of phone signal.We enter through a narrow cloister-like passage: there are tiny spotlights in the floor that resemble tea lights, and real candles too, about 400 of them. An overpowering aroma of incense and the sound of Gregorian chant fill the air. The lobby is full of rugs and cushion seating, with a fire crackling in one corner.As owner Marcello Murzilli is showing us around the hotel, a storm breaks outside \u2013 as if ordered to enhance the atmosphere. Murzilli, a fashion designer who set up the eco-friendly Hotelito Desconocido on Mexico\u2019s Pacific coast, is a warm and welcoming host. He explains the philosophy behind the experience as we sit in a small chapel at the top of the building. \u201cIn the middle of nature we are nothing,\u201d he says. Lightning flashes at the windows as he speaks.The hotel is aimed at solo travellers, which means that even if you visit as a couple, you have to sleep apart. \u201cEat, pray, but don\u2019t love,\u201d as one of my fellow guests astutely puts it. The nine-square-metre rooms or celluzze, based on monastic cells, are simple but impeccably designed. A desk and chair are cut out of the local stone which has been used to cave-like effect to build this hermit\u2019s paradise. Traditional hemp-yarn sheets are not particularly soft but aesthetically perfect, even though they\u2019re a nightmare to wash, apparently. Light fittings have been handmade by artisans. It\u2019s all very Instragramable - if there was Wi-Fi.There is something oddly luxurious about the simplicity of the place, which makes it an apt addition to the Design Hotels roster. Murzilli is interested in \u201cthe spirit of the essential\u201d as a counter to the \u201cmany things in life we don\u2019t appreciate\u201d. His decade of research before opening the hotel a year ago involved visits to no fewer than 50 monasteries, and he believes he has come up with the perfect contemporary interpretation. A priest has been for a tour and approved. His dream guest would be Pope Francis.Time at Eremito is best spent making the most of what is on offer within the walls, including the yoga and meditative spa facilities. But if you get cabin-feverish, the hotel is surrounded by nature. On a riverside walk from the edge of the grounds we spot wild asparagus and fennel growing in abundance; an overpowering scent of wild mint fills the air as green woodpeckers swoop by.It would be a shame to venture further afield and miss a meal, as the room price is full-board. Food is vegetarian, unfussy and for the most part locally grown and homemade: Tuscan bean soup, very apt strozzapreti (or \u201cpriest-choker\u201d) pasta, and salads, all with lashings of olive oil. The only meal taken in silence is dinner, which is a bit awkward at first but almost pleasurable once you\u2019ve got the knack of it.There is no spiritual awakening for me, but even a couple of days at Eremito is quite an intense experience \u2013 I don\u2019t envy the German woman who has booked in for a fortnight. Yet after a soak in the Jacuzzi and a nap on the sun terrace looking out over the valley, I am feeling genuinely refreshed, and not just because of the lack of contact with the outside world.Whether you are cut out for the monk\u2019s life or not, this is an ideal place to go to take some time out and recharge.\u2022 The trip was provided by Design Hotels; rooms at the Eremito from \u00a3164pp pn full-board", "tags": ["Umbria holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Luxury travel"], "title": "A digital detox in Umbria, Italy"},{"date": "2015-01-08T06:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yara Gambirasio should only have been gone a short while. On Friday 26 November 2010, at 5.15pm, she left home to go to the gym, just a few hundred metres from her home. Yara, who was 13 and wore train-track braces, was preparing for her rhythmic gymnastics display the following Sunday. All she needed to do was drop off a stereo with her instructor. She said goodbye to her family, who knew where she was going, and left the house.By 7pm, Yara had still not come home and her parents were becoming increasingly anxious. The town where they lived, Brembate di Sopra, was a sedate place, on the so-called \u201cBergamask island\u201d between the rivers Brembo and Adda. An hour north of Milan, and just south of the Bergamo Alps, it has a population of 8,000. From its quiet streets, lined with poplars and cypresses, you can see the wooded mountains in the distance, the peaks turning blue-grey. At 7.11pm, Yara\u2019s mother phoned her daughter, but the call went straight to voicemail. Twenty minutes later, Yara\u2019s father called the police.The call was put through to the public prosecutor\u2019s office, in the centre of the provincial capital Bergamo, a city 11km east of Brembate di Sopra. The magistrate on duty was Letizia Ruggeri, 45, a tough former policewoman who had earned her stripes fighting Cosa Nostra in Sicily. She had been a magistrate for almost 15 years, and knew what needed to be done. Within minutes she had dispatched both state police officers and carabinieri, military police, to Brembate di Sopra.Yara\u2019s gym instructor confirmed that she had seen the teenager earlier that day and that she had done some light training before heading off. The police quickly established that the last known contact with Yara was a text message she had sent to a friend, Martina, at 6.44pm, agreeing to meet at 8am the following Sunday. That was the last anyone heard from her.The gym was part of a large sports complex, a garish building with many entrances and exits. Besides the large sports hall there was a running track, a swimming pool, and various courts. A few people said they\u2019d seen two men \u2013 possibly in conversation with Yara, standing near a red car \u2013 but there was little more to go on than that.Ruggeri called in tracker dogs: a breed of bloodhound, Segugio Italiano, with short, brown and black hair, long ears, doleful eyes and a keen sense of smell. Instead of following the expected route back to Yara\u2019s home in Via Rampinelli, Ruggeri\u2019s dogs went in the opposite direction, towards a small hamlet nearby called Mapello. When the team analysed the last signals from Yara\u2019s mobile phone, the result showed that it had been registered as present in Mapello at 18.49 that evening.Everything seemed to point away from Yara\u2019s family, but investigations of this type always start at home. Over the next few days, Ruggeri and her team questioned every member of the Gambirasio family, looking for signs of discord or dark secrets. Yara\u2019s parents were well-known and respected: her father, Fulvio, was a large, solid man with thick glasses, an architect whose father had been the local postman, like his mother before him. Maura, Fulvio\u2019s wife, was a teacher in Longuelo, a nearby town. The marriage appeared strong, they had four children: Yara had an older sister, Keba, 15, and two younger brothers, Natan and Gioele, both under 10.Ruggeri put wiretaps on hundreds of phones. Her team also tried to trace the owners of all the handsets \u2013 some 15,000 \u2013 which had passed through Mapello on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance. One of these belonged to a Moroccan man called Mohammed Fikri. In one wiretapped conversation, in late November, the interpreter heard the phrase: \u201cForgive me God, I didn\u2019t kill her\u201d. Fikri had been working in a builders\u2019 yard in Mapello, but by the time investigators had put the pieces together, a few days later, he was on a boat bound for Tangiers. On 4 December, Italian authorities intercepted the vessel and arrested Fikri. They searched the van he had been using and discovered that it contained a blood-stained mattress. \u201cPeople liked him as the guilty party,\u201d Ruggeri told me ruefully last year, \u201cbecause he was foreign.\u201d But Fikri was quickly cleared. The phrase had been mistranslated, and the blood was extraneous to the investigation.As autumn slipped into winter, Brembate di Sopra found itself at the centre of a mystery which had captured the country\u2019s imagination. Italian TV is dominated by cronache nere, crime news, and now national camera crews descended. The Gambirasio family were horrified by the sudden glare of publicity. TV cameras became a permanent fixture in their quiet cul-de-sac. The family locked themselves away, lowering their shutters and even turning down the idea of a torchlight procession to raise awareness. Instead, nuns from the Ursuline order, who taught at Yara\u2019s school, came to pray with Maura. A mass was held instead of the procession, and the rare statements from the parents were devout pleas for privacy and patience.The reticence of the Gambirasio family reflected the culture of this region. The province of Bergamo is much closer to Switzerland than Naples and the Bergamaschi are generally more reserved than their southern countrymen. \u201cIt\u2019s in the spirit of mountain people to disdain gossip and not to repeat nonsense,\u201d Piero Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, a colourful local newspaper, told me. \u201cIf I don\u2019t know something, if I have only heard it said, I don\u2019t say anything until I\u2019m certain it\u2019s true.\u201dDesperate to discover the whereabouts of their daughter, the Gambirasio family did share some photographs of Yara with the press in the days after her disappearance \u2013 Yara queueing to take communion; doing the splits in the gym; a studio photo of her in a yellow top; in an Italy football shirt; on the beach \u2013 but no one came forward with any useful information. When her parents finally made a televised appeal, a few days after their first Christmas without Yara, they looked awkward. Maura was so uncomfortable she was, unintentionally, rolling her eyes. Fulvio, who wore a rugby shirt, hesitantly read a plea: \u201cHelp us return to normality\u201d. He explained that the family values were \u201clove, respect and honesty\u201d, and that they would be giving no interviews.This wariness towards outsiders owes much to the region\u2019s history. Bergamo is still called, in local dialect, \u201cB\u00e8rghem\u201d, an old name which means \u201cthe town of the mountain\u201d. The city has always been a strategically important citadel, one of the last redoubts before the flat, fertile basin of the river Po. The Bergamaschi are used to seeing off invasions. Just a few miles west of Brembate di Sopra is a small town called Pontida, where in 1167 the Lombard League \u2013 the alliance of northern Italian cities which joined together to resist the German Holy Roman emperor, Frederick I \u2013 was formed. The Oath of Pontida still exerts a symbolic power today. It\u2019s frequently evoked by the separatists of the Northern League to rally sentiment against outsiders: against the perceived indolence and corruption of southern Italy or, more commonly now, against immigrants from developing nations.This setting was part of what fascinated the Italian public about Yara\u2019s disappearance. The province of Bergamo seemed to represent two different sides of the country. Where Lower Bergamo, towards the plains, is fashionable, well-connected and industrialised, Alpine Bergamo is agricultural, remote and deeply traditional, a close-knit place which nurtures suspicion, even superstition. Some locals talk, without irony, of this being a land of streghe, of witches, who steal or poison young children.Yara\u2019s disappearance has continued to grip the Italian public over the past four years, becoming one of the most extraordinary, and sophisticated, criminal investigations in Italian history. \u201cIt\u2019s like a novel\u201d, a newspaper editor once told me, shaking his head. When I recently asked Ruggeri, the chief investigator, to sum up the case, she stared at her desk and just said \u201cincredible\u201d four times.On the afternoon of 26 February 2011, exactly three months after Yara disappeared, a middle-aged man named Ilario Scotti was flying his radio-controlled plane in the small town of Chignolo d\u2019Isola, 10km south of Brembate di Sopra. Chignolo is surrounded by industrial estates, and the scrubland by Via Bedeschi seemed like a safe, unpopulated place for Scotti to try out his new model aircraft. The model aeroplane wasn\u2019t functioning as Scotti wanted, though, so he brought it down to earth amid the tall weeds. As he picked up his plane, he caught sight of some rags on the ground nearby. At first, he thought someone had been fly-tipping. Then he saw the shoes.Ruggeri was coming back from a day\u2019s skiing with her daughter when she got the call that a body had been found. She dropped her daughter at home and went straight to the crime scene. The body was in an advanced state of decomposition, but Ruggeri could see the black bomber jacket with its elasticated waist which Yara had been wearing when she left home in November. There, too, was her Hello Kitty sweatshirt. Crime scene investigators found Yara\u2019s iPod and house keys, as well as the sim card and battery for her LG phone. The phone itself was missing.\u201cIt was a relief,\u201d Ruggeri told me later. \u201cYara\u2019s disappearance had really disturbed me \u2013 I\u2019m a mother too, and the only thing worse than the death of a child is the disappearance of a child.\u201dThe autopsy was conducted by Italy\u2019s most famous forensic pathologist, Professor Cristina Cattaneo. She discovered traces of lime in Yara\u2019s respiratory passages, and the presence of jute, a vegetable fibre used to make rope, on her clothing. Yara hadn\u2019t been raped, although her purple bra was unhooked. She had suffered multiple injuries from a sharp weapon which had pierced her clothing at various points. It seemed that she had been attacked and abandoned. She had died of exposure.The presence of lime and jute suggested the killer might be in the building trade. The forensics team retrieved two DNA samples, one from Yara\u2019s phone battery and the other from two fingers of her black gloves but neither matched any samples the authorities had on record. Two months later, in April, the commander of the scientific investigations department in Parma phoned Ruggeri. \u201cI\u2019ve got good news,\u201d he told her. \u201cThis murder has a signature. We\u2019ve found male DNA on the underwear of the deceased.\u201d It was likely that the murderer had himself been wounded in the struggle, leaving his DNA on the girl\u2019s knickers. Ruggeri and her team named the murder suspect Ignoto 1, \u201cUnknown 1\u201d. Now the hunt for Yara\u2019s killer could begin in earnest.The workload was huge, and Ruggeri divided up the duties: the police were responsible for taking DNA samples from family members, from school friends and people in the gym; the carabinieri concentrated on the phone records, cross-referencing all the mobile phones that had moved from Brembate di Sopra to Chignolo d\u2019Isola on 26 November 2010. Each phone user whose number appeared in both cells was tracked down and asked for a DNA sample.It was slow and laborious work. It took geneticists in Parma, Pavia and Rome a minimum of six hours to transform just a few samples of DNA into something which could be read, and compared, on a computer screen. The cost, in machinery and manpower, was immense and the investigation would go on to become one of the most expensive manhunts in Italian history.Yara\u2019s funeral took place on a hot morning in late May 2011. Onlookers applauded the white coffin, which was topped with a huge bouquet of white flowers, as the hearse slowly drove towards her gym. The ceremony took place in the sports hall where she had spent so many hours training, and where she had last been seen alive. Outside, a large crowd watched the funeral on a giant screen, and heard the condolences of Giorgio Napolitano, the president of the Republic.By the time of the funeral, investigators had taken thousands of DNA samples but they still had no leads. Close to the scrubland where Yara\u2019s body had been found was a nightclub called Sabbie Mobili (Quicksand). Ruggeri knew that murderers tend to dump bodies in areas with which they\u2019re very familiar, so although it seemed like a long shot, in spring 2011 investigators started taking DNA samples outside the club on busy Fridays and Saturdays. Sabbie Mobili had a reputation for violence \u2013 a young man from the Dominican Republic had been murdered outside its doors on 16 January 2011 \u2013 but the club had helpful records. Clubbers required a membership card to get in, and so the authorities could easily track down anyone who went there regularly.Ruggeri finally got a break. One of the samples from Sabbie Mobili seemed strikingly similar to the suspect, Ignoto 1. The man who gave the sample was called Damiano Guerinoni. He was quickly excluded as a suspect \u2013 he had been in South America on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance \u2013 but geneticists were convinced he was a close relative of the murderer. \u201cWe were all very excited\u201d, Ruggeri told me. \u201cWe said, \u2018bingo \u2013 just a couple of more days\u2019 [and we\u2019ll have the murderer].\u201d As Ruggeri and her team put together the jigsaw of Guerinoni\u2019s family, they made an astonishing discovery: Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s mother, Aurora Zanni, had worked for 10 years as a domestic help in the Gambirasio home. She lived nearby, and had gone to Yara\u2019s home twice a week throughout the young girl\u2019s childhood.Ruggeri resigned herself to the fact that it was just a coincidence. \u2018You couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy\u2019Zanni was a middle-aged woman who was very attached to her employers. She recalled how Yara would always ask her to watch her latest gymnastics moves, and Zanni would tell her to be careful not to hurt herself. In 2011, she was no longer working for the family but said her relationship with Yara\u2019s parents was excellent. To find herself at the centre of the investigation into Yara\u2019s murder was, Zanni said later, \u201cthe worst thing that could happen to me\u201d.\u201cObviously,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201cwe intercepted [Damiano Guerinoni and Aurora Zanni\u2019s] calls, had them followed, grilled them and tortured them, in the sense that we pressed them.\u201d It was only after months of close surveillance that Ruggeri, in the summer of 2011, resigned herself to the fact that \u201cit was just a crazy coincidence\u201d. \u201cThere was no connection\u201d, she says. \u201cYou couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy.\u201d Having seemed so close to a resolution, Ruggeri\u2019s team reluctantly discarded the angle of the domestic help. The only promising lead they still had was the fact that Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s DNA was so similar to that of Ignoto 1.A year on from Yara\u2019s murder, Ruggeri\u2019s team was now under intense pressure to find the killer. Thousands of people were being DNA tested and some locals who hadn\u2019t been approached for a sample suggested to the press that the investigation was haphazard. Politicians made personal attacks on Ruggeri. One Northern League politician, Daniele Belotti, publicly decried her incompetence, writing an open letter in January 2012 to the minister of justice asking for her to be replaced by someone \u201cof proven experience\u201d. (Ruggeri filed a lawsuit against Belotti for libel on 20 April 2012, taking particular objection to his characterisation of her as a person of \u201clow technical and moral profile\u201d.)Behind these criticisms of Ruggeri was a strong undercurrent of sexism: what hope was there that this woman could solve such a complex crime? She was unconventional, a single-mother with long salt-and-pepper hair, and five earrings in her left ear. She played classical guitar, rode to work on an old Vespa and had a blackbelt in karate. Ruggeri felt she was also being targeted because she had decided to drop the case against the Moroccan labourer, Mohammed Fikri. \u201cMany people thought I had made the wrong decision\u201d, Ruggeri told me, \u201cand they held it against me. The criticism was ferocious \u2026 I found it very tough.\u201dRuggeri decided to concentrate on the only promising lead she had: the Guerinoni DNA. Her team spent months recreating the Guerinoni family tree. When I visited her office last year, Ruggeri pulled out a folder and showed me hundreds of names, each one annotated: dates of birth, places of birth, relationships within the family. The investigators had worked out a complete genealogical tree as far back as 1815, with other branches of the family going back as far as 1716.The roots of that family tree were in the small village of Gorno. It\u2019s only 45 minutes\u2019 drive north of Bergamo itself, up the narrow Seriana Valley, but it feels like another world. You arrive through a series of hairpin bends, into a village that smells of woodsmoke and chickens. In the distance, you can hear the sound of waterfalls and cowbells. The village is full of narrow flights of steps \u2013 the only horizontal patch of land is a sandy five-aside football pitch. Although only 1,600 people live in Gorno and it seems like a quiet, pious place, according to one former parish, the village is \u201ca bit too hot, in every sense. Let\u2019s say they\u2019re a bit promiscuous.\u201d In 2011 two people in Gorno were murdered in unrelated incidents.The same families have been here for centuries, and on the village\u2019s war memorial, outside the small church, the names of Benedetto and Pietro Guerinoni are carved into the stone. The Guerinoni family were nicknamed i Fant\u00ec, the \u201cinfantry\u201d: considered by everyone to be loyal, strong, even hot-headed. Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s father had a brother, Giuseppe, who had died in 1999. Investigators visited Giuseppe\u2019s widow in September 2011 and found two stamps he had licked: one in order to validate his driving licence and another on a postcard he had sent to his family. When DNA results came back from that sample, they had another breakthrough: geneticists were convinced that Giuseppe Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1, the suspected murderer.Ruggeri\u2019s team quickly built up a picture of Giuseppe Guerinoni and his family. Giuseppe himself, a thick-set man with a rugged face, had been a bus driver who played the accordion at village festivals. His marriage, to Laura Poli, had seemed conventional. They had three children: a girl and two boys. Laura had become a Jehovah\u2019s Witness, and after her husband\u2019s death had moved to a nearby town, Clusone. Since Ignoto 1 was male, investigators concentrated on the sons, Pierpaolo and Diego. Pierpaolo was, like his mother, a Jehovah\u2019s Witness; Diego had a drug problem. Neither provided a perfect match with Ignoto 1, however, and neither of them had children.If Ignoto 1 really was the son of the late Giuseppe Guerinoni, the only explanation was that, somewhere out there, was his illegitimate child. \u201cIt became,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201can investigation within an investigation.\u201d She was now hunting a woman, presumably in middle- to old-age, who 30 or 40 years ago had had an affair with a married man, now long dead, and given birth to a boy who went on to murder Yara Gambirasio.It proved extremely difficult for investigators to penetrate the mountain villages \u2013 Ponte Selva, Parre, Clusone and Rovetta \u2013 where they were looking for clues and leads. Some Italian journalists spoke of the \u201ccocciutaggine\u201d, or pig-headedness, of the Bergamo Alps \u2013 a caricature which only served to antagonise the already defensive locals. \u201cThe people here,\u201d says Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, \u201cwere irritated by the stereotype of highlanders closed in on themselves. The word \u201comert\u00e0\u201d was even used, which implies [the silence of] Sicily and the mafia. It was deeply offensive.\u201dThere was incomprehension on both sides. The investigation was, by Italian standards, unusually secretive. Locals couldn\u2019t understand why police hunting the murderer of a 13-year-old girl were taking DNA samples of elderly women. Bonicelli \u2013 a fan of the fictional detectives Maigret and Montalbano \u2013 says that the investigation \u201cwas lacking the traditional, human element: the sort of person who goes into a bar in the village \u2026 and puts someone at ease so that something slips out.\u201d Locals felt there was something cold about this investigation, with its invasive demands for DNA samples. And it was changing the atmosphere in these small communities. People thought, says Bonicelli, \u201cthat the murderer was here, amongst us. So there was a sort of \u2013 not panic, but fear.\u201dInvestigators knew that from the early 1960s onwards, for two weeks every May, Giuseppe Guerinoni used to go to a spa resort called Salice Terme, south of Milan, without his wife. Throughout the spring of 2012, Ruggeri\u2019s team scoured records and registers, tracking all the women who had stayed in the resort at the same time of year as Guerinoni. They searched orphanages and homes for \u201cfallen women\u201d; they tested single mothers and women who had left the mountains for lower Bergamo. They came up empty-handed. The woman they were looking for, they realised, was probably neither single nor \u201cfallen\u201d, but hidden behind the walls of a marriage. Divorce was only legalised in Italy in 1970 \u2013 until that time many couples had stayed together despite infidelities.By the time Ruggeri was searching for Ignoto 1\u2019s mother, Yara\u2019s parents had hired their own expert, a freelance geneticist, in order to review the investigation and explain it to them. For almost a year Giorgio Portera lobbied for the exhumation of Giuseppe Guerinoni\u2019s body from the cemetery in Gorno. He was concerned that investigators has only been able to compare 13 Short Tandem Repeat (STR) regions, which are sequences of DNA, with the DNA of Ignoto 1. Confirmation of paternity demands that at least 15 STR regions be compared. So early on 7 March, 2013, workmen chiselled into Guerinoni\u2019s loculo, the horizontal slot in a cemetery wall where his coffin was kept, and removed his remains. They were transferred by carabinieri to the Papa Giovanni XXIII hospital in Bergamo for examination before being returned to Gorno just a few hours later. A couple of camera crews, and a few bewildered villagers, watched. When DNA was extracted from his remains, 29 STR regions could be compared. It was now absolutely certain that Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1.As the investigation dragged on through 2013, the public slowly became aware of why a woman was being sought. It became common knowledge that the late Giuseppe Guerinoni had had a lover, and that she was thought to be the mother of the murderer. \u201cWe have rediscovered,\u201d wrote one journalist, \u201cthat accursed desire for gossip which spices up small-town life. Now, here, everyone wants to know whose son so-and-so is.\u201dLong-forgotten infidelities and old suspicions surfaced. Bonicelli laughs as he describes how his journalists discovered five illegitimate children in two small villages: \u201cFive! We could have started a gossip magazine. It was like an open sewer: we were receiving anonymous letters, stories, people telling us about backgrounds and cuckolds.\u201d A society which had always prided itself on its sense of loyalty and traditional Catholicism, suddenly discovered the betrayals in its midst. \u201cPerhaps the point is this,\u201d Bonicelli wrote in an editorial, \u201cwe don\u2019t know each other any more.\u201dUntil this point, the investigation had been characterised by cutting-edge, scientific analysis, but it was an old-fashioned detective who broke the case open. Marshall Giovanni Mocerino was Ruggeri\u2019s right-hand man, working in the office next to hers. His desk is covered in hundreds of scraps of paper, scrawled with names and numbers in different coloured inks. Mocerino has bushy grey hair and black-rimmed glasses and speaks in a light-hearted, informal manner. But he\u2019s also, by his own admission, a capotosta, a stubborn man: \u201cI get fucked off when I can\u2019t solve a case,\u201d he told me. Because of this case, he said, \u201cI haven\u2019t had a holiday for four years.\u201dAlthough Mocerino was born in the south, near Naples, he had lived in the Bergamo Alps area since 1983 and he had come to know the region well. He was always talking with local people, and \u201csensitised\u201d, as he said, thousands to the case. He reminded them that, amid all the gossip about infidelities that had been sparked off by the hunt for Guerinoni\u2019s lover, a young girl had been killed. By 2013, he knew everything about Guerinoni\u2019s life: born in Gorno, Guerinoni had moved in the mid-1960s to Ponte Selva, a nearby settlement which had grown up around the bridge over the Serio river. He drove a public bus for the Motallini (later SAB) bus company. In the 1960s and 70s he would have driven plenty of young women to and from jobs in the various textile factories.Mocerino questioned Guerinoni\u2019s fellow bus drivers, one of whom had already gone to the press in March 2013 saying that Guerinoni had confessed to having got a young woman \u201cin trouble\u201d. Another former colleague described Guerinoni as a \u201cman\u201d with a \u201ccapital M\u201d, implying that he was a womaniser. But it wasn\u2019t until June 2014, that one of Mocerino\u2019s sources finally gave him the name he was looking for. Mocerino has always protected his sources, and refuses to confirm who first whispered the name of the mystery woman to him but however it came about, investigators had the final piece of the jigsaw: Ester Arzuffi.Arzuffi had been a neighbour of Guerinoni\u2019s in Ponte Selva in the late 1960s. In 1966, aged 19, she had married Gianni Bossetti from Parre, a nearby village. Bossetti was a man whose tough life had turned him inwards: he had been orphaned young and suffered from psoriasis, arthrosis and depression. Arzuffi seemed very different: an outgoing, good-looking woman, she wore short skirts and dyed her hair. She got a job at the textile factory a few miles away in Villa d\u2019Ogna, and took the bus every day.Ruggeri\u2019s team immediately cross-checked the DNA samples they had, and discovered that Arzuffi had already been tested in July 2012. They double-checked, and realised that a basic error had been made by a geneticist in Rome \u2013 Arzuffi\u2019s DNA had been compared not to Ignoto 1\u2019s, but to Yara\u2019s. Now investigators hurriedly reran the test and discovered that Arzuffi was, indeed, the woman they had spent so long looking for. She was the mother of Ignoto 1.Arzuffi had left Ponte Selva in 1970, but she had continued her affair with Guerinoni, and in the autumn of 1970 she gave birth to twins \u2013 a boy and a girl. The boy was called Massimo Bossetti (his middle name was Giuseppe, like his biological father). A slim boy who loved to party, he was nicknamed \u201cthe animal\u201d by his friends. He was now 42, a builder, married with three children and living in Mapello, the hamlet near Yara\u2019s hometown where the last signal from Yara\u2019s cell phone had been recorded on 26 November 2010. He was short, with piercing blue eyes, and had a peroxided, pencil goatee.Ruggeri moved fast. On 15 June 2014, she set up a fake roadblock breathalysing drivers. When her police officers stopped Massimo Bossetti, they pretended the machine hadn\u2019t worked the first time, so they could get two good samples. His DNA was immediately sent for overnight tests and results showed it was an exact match with Ignoto 1. One geneticist told me that the chance of a random match between Ignoto 1 and Massimo Bossetti was 2 x 10-27.Ruggeri wanted to observe Bossetti before arresting him, to study his movements and behaviour from a distance, but she was also worried that the news would get out and that he might leave town. On 16 June, Bossetti was arrested and charged with the murder of Yara Gambirasio. The Italian home secretary himself released a statement announcing his arrest. Reaction in the mountains of Bergamo, centre of the investigation, was relief: the murder suspect was from lower Bergamo.The suspect's internet history\u2028 was troubling, using search \u2028words which implied a compulsion \u2028for pubescent young girlsInvestigators discovered plenty of circumstantial evidence. Bossetti had frequently hung around Yara\u2019s house; he parked his car in Via Don Sala, behind the gym, and ate at the Toscanaccia pizzeria at the end of her road. He had gone for regular UV showers at a tanning shop nearby. His internet searches were troubling, using search words which implied a compulsion for pubescent young girls. More pertinently, records suggested that his phone had been present in Brembate di Sopra on the evening of Yara\u2019s disappearance, but had been switched off from 5.45pm until the following morning at 7.34am. For Ruggeri, the arrest was the reward for almost four years of dogged investigative work. After enduring a barrage of criticism for alleged incompetence, she was now feted for her brilliance.The case is likely to come to trial this spring. Bossetti maintains his innocence, and his lawyers are planning to contest the DNA evidence, claiming that DNA merely indicates \u201cpresence, not responsibility\u201d. Meanwhile, three families are dealing with the devastation of the case. Guerinoni\u2019s widow has been forced, in the autumn of her life, to come to terms with her husband\u2019s infidelity and the existence of his other children. Meanwhile, just as he was diagnosed with terminal cancer, Giovanni Bossetti became the nation\u2019s most famous cuckold, learning at the same time as the rest of the country that none of his three children are his (leaks from the investigation revealed that Ester Arzuffi\u2019s third child, Fabio, also had a different father). The marriage of the accused, Massimo Bossetti, has also come under strain: since his defence sought to portray him as a family man, two people have come forward to claim that they had affairs with his wife. Such is the local loathing for Bossetti that since his arrest, his twin sister \u2013 herself coming to terms with both her brother\u2019s fate and the fact that the man she thought was her father is not biologically related to her \u2013 has twice been beaten up. Her mother, Ester Arzuffi, still denies that she\u2019s ever been unfaithful to her husband.The Gambirasio family, meanwhile, has remained private. Recently, awarding a gymnastics trophy named after her daughter, Maura Gambirasio struggled to smile and made no public comments. She\u2019s cut her hair short and looks gaunt. Yara is buried between her two grandparents in a cemetery just across the road from her gym. There\u2019s no date on her tombstone, only a signature next to a photograph of her wearing a white alice band. All around the grave are mementoes left by her friends: gym shoes, a metal tulip, rag dolls, plastic angels and little bracelets. Often, in the early evening, you see Yara\u2019s father, Fulvio, standing here, gazing at the resting place of his parents and his daughter.Tobias Jones\u2019s A Place of Refuge will be published by Quercus in May Follow the Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread\u2022 This article was amended on 13 January 2015 to clarify that a DNA sample came from Yara Gambirasio\u2019s phone battery.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Crime"], "title": "The murder that obsessed Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-16T00:28:45Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Michele Ferrero, who built up a sweet fortune with his Nutella empire, died on Saturday with a legacy lauded by the Italian president and chocolate lovers globally.Ferrero, 89, died in Monte Carlo after months of illness, leaving a country that had grown up on his chocolate creations in mourning. \u201cWe are proud of you. Thank you, Michele,\u201d read a note on the website of Ferrero, the family business started by his father, Pietro, in 1942.Italy\u2019s president, Sergio Mattarella, sent a telegram to the family to express his deep emotion on learning of the billionaire confectioner\u2019s death. \u201cFerrero was for many years a champion of Italian business, always succeeding in keeping up with the times thanks to innovative products and his hard work and reserved [nature]. Italians remember him with gratitude, also for his work supporting and promoting culture,\u201d Mattarella wrote.Local press described the \u201cgreat upset\u201d in his home town of Alba, in north-west Italy, where Ferrero\u2019s business empire was born. \u201cItalian industry grieves for one of its great protagonists,\u201d the Gazzetta d\u2019Alba said.In a country beset by economic woes, where the wealthy have come under fire for their lavish lifestyles and countless corruption scandals, the outpouring of grief for Italy\u2019s richest man may seem out of place. Ferrero\u2019s net worth was estimated as $23.4bn (\u00a315.2bn), making him \u201cthe richest candyman on the planet\u201d according to Forbes. But by shunning the limelight and becoming the key driver of the global success of the business, he commanded great respect at home and abroad.He took over the family firm from his pastry-maker father, who in the 1940s began blending hazelnuts and cocoa into a chocolatey mix that was ultimately christened Nutella. When Ferrero took over, he went against common wisdom and drove an ambitious international agenda.In an interview released after his death, Ferrero recounted the \u201cmoving\u201d moment he brought cherry chocolates called Mon Ch\u00e9ri to Germany. \u201cWhen we arrived it was after the war, a country still full of ruins with the signs of the conflict, sad, depressed, in which Italians were viewed very badly,\u201d he told Italian daily La Stampa. \u201cI thought of something that would raise morale, that each day could sweeten the lives of the Germans \u2026 at a price accessible to everyone.\u201dWinning over post-war Europeans with Mon Ch\u00e9ri was the start of success abroad, cemented in 1983 when the first tub of Nutella arrived in the US. Ferrero Rocher chocolates had been created a year earlier, to be forever associated with ambassadors\u2019 parties thanks to TV adverts.While Ferrero\u2019s son Giovanni took over the business, he was said to have never retired. Speaking softly, he revealed his secret to La Stampa: \u201cAlways act differently to the others, have faith, stay strong and put customers at the centre each day.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Food & drink", "World news"], "title": "Italy mourns Nutella creator Michele Ferrero"},{"date": "2015-01-18T12:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It is my birthday and I am in a candlelit, monastic-feeling dining room with 11 strangers, eating in silence. For 45 minutes, over a four-course meal and, thankfully, plenty of red wine, we wordlessly appreciate the excellent food, to a background of Ennio Morricone\u2019s increasingly manic soundtrack to 1986 film The Mission. I have to stifle giggles as everyone resorts to exaggerated gestures and cartoonish facial expressions to show gratitude for the passing of a bread basket or water jug, and eventually I fail to suppress a sneeze which breaks the peace.I\u2019ve chosen this somewhat humourless way of celebrating to road-test the latest travel fad: the digital detox. In this age of information overload, holidaymakers increasingly perfer a break from the treadmill of technological lives filled with 24/7 notifications and spam. Got it bad like me? Time to check in to eco-hotel Eremito \u2013 the name comes from eremita, meaning hermit \u2013 in rolling Umbrian hills south-west of Perugia.Quite how remote the place is becomes clear two hours into our journey from Rome. Suddenly, our smart people carrier pulls up and we are transferred to a battered Jeep. The final stretch up a dirt track that follows is a series of bumps, near-vertical slopes and, at one point, driving straight through a river. The sight of the hotel coming in to view is a relief. As is the lack of phone signal.We enter through a narrow cloister-like passage: there are tiny spotlights in the floor that resemble tea lights, and real candles too, about 400 of them. An overpowering aroma of incense and the sound of Gregorian chant fill the air. The lobby is full of rugs and cushion seating, with a fire crackling in one corner.As owner Marcello Murzilli is showing us around the hotel, a storm breaks outside \u2013 as if ordered to enhance the atmosphere. Murzilli, a fashion designer who set up the eco-friendly Hotelito Desconocido on Mexico\u2019s Pacific coast, is a warm and welcoming host. He explains the philosophy behind the experience as we sit in a small chapel at the top of the building. \u201cIn the middle of nature we are nothing,\u201d he says. Lightning flashes at the windows as he speaks.The hotel is aimed at solo travellers, which means that even if you visit as a couple, you have to sleep apart. \u201cEat, pray, but don\u2019t love,\u201d as one of my fellow guests astutely puts it. The nine-square-metre rooms or celluzze, based on monastic cells, are simple but impeccably designed. A desk and chair are cut out of the local stone which has been used to cave-like effect to build this hermit\u2019s paradise. Traditional hemp-yarn sheets are not particularly soft but aesthetically perfect, even though they\u2019re a nightmare to wash, apparently. Light fittings have been handmade by artisans. It\u2019s all very Instragramable - if there was Wi-Fi.There is something oddly luxurious about the simplicity of the place, which makes it an apt addition to the Design Hotels roster. Murzilli is interested in \u201cthe spirit of the essential\u201d as a counter to the \u201cmany things in life we don\u2019t appreciate\u201d. His decade of research before opening the hotel a year ago involved visits to no fewer than 50 monasteries, and he believes he has come up with the perfect contemporary interpretation. A priest has been for a tour and approved. His dream guest would be Pope Francis.Time at Eremito is best spent making the most of what is on offer within the walls, including the yoga and meditative spa facilities. But if you get cabin-feverish, the hotel is surrounded by nature. On a riverside walk from the edge of the grounds we spot wild asparagus and fennel growing in abundance; an overpowering scent of wild mint fills the air as green woodpeckers swoop by.It would be a shame to venture further afield and miss a meal, as the room price is full-board. Food is vegetarian, unfussy and for the most part locally grown and homemade: Tuscan bean soup, very apt strozzapreti (or \u201cpriest-choker\u201d) pasta, and salads, all with lashings of olive oil. The only meal taken in silence is dinner, which is a bit awkward at first but almost pleasurable once you\u2019ve got the knack of it.There is no spiritual awakening for me, but even a couple of days at Eremito is quite an intense experience \u2013 I don\u2019t envy the German woman who has booked in for a fortnight. Yet after a soak in the Jacuzzi and a nap on the sun terrace looking out over the valley, I am feeling genuinely refreshed, and not just because of the lack of contact with the outside world.Whether you are cut out for the monk\u2019s life or not, this is an ideal place to go to take some time out and recharge.\u2022 The trip was provided by Design Hotels; rooms at the Eremito from \u00a3164pp pn full-board", "tags": ["Umbria holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Luxury travel"], "title": "A digital detox in Umbria, Italy"},{"date": "2015-01-08T06:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yara Gambirasio should only have been gone a short while. On Friday 26 November 2010, at 5.15pm, she left home to go to the gym, just a few hundred metres from her home. Yara, who was 13 and wore train-track braces, was preparing for her rhythmic gymnastics display the following Sunday. All she needed to do was drop off a stereo with her instructor. She said goodbye to her family, who knew where she was going, and left the house.By 7pm, Yara had still not come home and her parents were becoming increasingly anxious. The town where they lived, Brembate di Sopra, was a sedate place, on the so-called \u201cBergamask island\u201d between the rivers Brembo and Adda. An hour north of Milan, and just south of the Bergamo Alps, it has a population of 8,000. From its quiet streets, lined with poplars and cypresses, you can see the wooded mountains in the distance, the peaks turning blue-grey. At 7.11pm, Yara\u2019s mother phoned her daughter, but the call went straight to voicemail. Twenty minutes later, Yara\u2019s father called the police.The call was put through to the public prosecutor\u2019s office, in the centre of the provincial capital Bergamo, a city 11km east of Brembate di Sopra. The magistrate on duty was Letizia Ruggeri, 45, a tough former policewoman who had earned her stripes fighting Cosa Nostra in Sicily. She had been a magistrate for almost 15 years, and knew what needed to be done. Within minutes she had dispatched both state police officers and carabinieri, military police, to Brembate di Sopra.Yara\u2019s gym instructor confirmed that she had seen the teenager earlier that day and that she had done some light training before heading off. The police quickly established that the last known contact with Yara was a text message she had sent to a friend, Martina, at 6.44pm, agreeing to meet at 8am the following Sunday. That was the last anyone heard from her.The gym was part of a large sports complex, a garish building with many entrances and exits. Besides the large sports hall there was a running track, a swimming pool, and various courts. A few people said they\u2019d seen two men \u2013 possibly in conversation with Yara, standing near a red car \u2013 but there was little more to go on than that.Ruggeri called in tracker dogs: a breed of bloodhound, Segugio Italiano, with short, brown and black hair, long ears, doleful eyes and a keen sense of smell. Instead of following the expected route back to Yara\u2019s home in Via Rampinelli, Ruggeri\u2019s dogs went in the opposite direction, towards a small hamlet nearby called Mapello. When the team analysed the last signals from Yara\u2019s mobile phone, the result showed that it had been registered as present in Mapello at 18.49 that evening.Everything seemed to point away from Yara\u2019s family, but investigations of this type always start at home. Over the next few days, Ruggeri and her team questioned every member of the Gambirasio family, looking for signs of discord or dark secrets. Yara\u2019s parents were well-known and respected: her father, Fulvio, was a large, solid man with thick glasses, an architect whose father had been the local postman, like his mother before him. Maura, Fulvio\u2019s wife, was a teacher in Longuelo, a nearby town. The marriage appeared strong, they had four children: Yara had an older sister, Keba, 15, and two younger brothers, Natan and Gioele, both under 10.Ruggeri put wiretaps on hundreds of phones. Her team also tried to trace the owners of all the handsets \u2013 some 15,000 \u2013 which had passed through Mapello on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance. One of these belonged to a Moroccan man called Mohammed Fikri. In one wiretapped conversation, in late November, the interpreter heard the phrase: \u201cForgive me God, I didn\u2019t kill her\u201d. Fikri had been working in a builders\u2019 yard in Mapello, but by the time investigators had put the pieces together, a few days later, he was on a boat bound for Tangiers. On 4 December, Italian authorities intercepted the vessel and arrested Fikri. They searched the van he had been using and discovered that it contained a blood-stained mattress. \u201cPeople liked him as the guilty party,\u201d Ruggeri told me ruefully last year, \u201cbecause he was foreign.\u201d But Fikri was quickly cleared. The phrase had been mistranslated, and the blood was extraneous to the investigation.As autumn slipped into winter, Brembate di Sopra found itself at the centre of a mystery which had captured the country\u2019s imagination. Italian TV is dominated by cronache nere, crime news, and now national camera crews descended. The Gambirasio family were horrified by the sudden glare of publicity. TV cameras became a permanent fixture in their quiet cul-de-sac. The family locked themselves away, lowering their shutters and even turning down the idea of a torchlight procession to raise awareness. Instead, nuns from the Ursuline order, who taught at Yara\u2019s school, came to pray with Maura. A mass was held instead of the procession, and the rare statements from the parents were devout pleas for privacy and patience.The reticence of the Gambirasio family reflected the culture of this region. The province of Bergamo is much closer to Switzerland than Naples and the Bergamaschi are generally more reserved than their southern countrymen. \u201cIt\u2019s in the spirit of mountain people to disdain gossip and not to repeat nonsense,\u201d Piero Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, a colourful local newspaper, told me. \u201cIf I don\u2019t know something, if I have only heard it said, I don\u2019t say anything until I\u2019m certain it\u2019s true.\u201dDesperate to discover the whereabouts of their daughter, the Gambirasio family did share some photographs of Yara with the press in the days after her disappearance \u2013 Yara queueing to take communion; doing the splits in the gym; a studio photo of her in a yellow top; in an Italy football shirt; on the beach \u2013 but no one came forward with any useful information. When her parents finally made a televised appeal, a few days after their first Christmas without Yara, they looked awkward. Maura was so uncomfortable she was, unintentionally, rolling her eyes. Fulvio, who wore a rugby shirt, hesitantly read a plea: \u201cHelp us return to normality\u201d. He explained that the family values were \u201clove, respect and honesty\u201d, and that they would be giving no interviews.This wariness towards outsiders owes much to the region\u2019s history. Bergamo is still called, in local dialect, \u201cB\u00e8rghem\u201d, an old name which means \u201cthe town of the mountain\u201d. The city has always been a strategically important citadel, one of the last redoubts before the flat, fertile basin of the river Po. The Bergamaschi are used to seeing off invasions. Just a few miles west of Brembate di Sopra is a small town called Pontida, where in 1167 the Lombard League \u2013 the alliance of northern Italian cities which joined together to resist the German Holy Roman emperor, Frederick I \u2013 was formed. The Oath of Pontida still exerts a symbolic power today. It\u2019s frequently evoked by the separatists of the Northern League to rally sentiment against outsiders: against the perceived indolence and corruption of southern Italy or, more commonly now, against immigrants from developing nations.This setting was part of what fascinated the Italian public about Yara\u2019s disappearance. The province of Bergamo seemed to represent two different sides of the country. Where Lower Bergamo, towards the plains, is fashionable, well-connected and industrialised, Alpine Bergamo is agricultural, remote and deeply traditional, a close-knit place which nurtures suspicion, even superstition. Some locals talk, without irony, of this being a land of streghe, of witches, who steal or poison young children.Yara\u2019s disappearance has continued to grip the Italian public over the past four years, becoming one of the most extraordinary, and sophisticated, criminal investigations in Italian history. \u201cIt\u2019s like a novel\u201d, a newspaper editor once told me, shaking his head. When I recently asked Ruggeri, the chief investigator, to sum up the case, she stared at her desk and just said \u201cincredible\u201d four times.On the afternoon of 26 February 2011, exactly three months after Yara disappeared, a middle-aged man named Ilario Scotti was flying his radio-controlled plane in the small town of Chignolo d\u2019Isola, 10km south of Brembate di Sopra. Chignolo is surrounded by industrial estates, and the scrubland by Via Bedeschi seemed like a safe, unpopulated place for Scotti to try out his new model aircraft. The model aeroplane wasn\u2019t functioning as Scotti wanted, though, so he brought it down to earth amid the tall weeds. As he picked up his plane, he caught sight of some rags on the ground nearby. At first, he thought someone had been fly-tipping. Then he saw the shoes.Ruggeri was coming back from a day\u2019s skiing with her daughter when she got the call that a body had been found. She dropped her daughter at home and went straight to the crime scene. The body was in an advanced state of decomposition, but Ruggeri could see the black bomber jacket with its elasticated waist which Yara had been wearing when she left home in November. There, too, was her Hello Kitty sweatshirt. Crime scene investigators found Yara\u2019s iPod and house keys, as well as the sim card and battery for her LG phone. The phone itself was missing.\u201cIt was a relief,\u201d Ruggeri told me later. \u201cYara\u2019s disappearance had really disturbed me \u2013 I\u2019m a mother too, and the only thing worse than the death of a child is the disappearance of a child.\u201dThe autopsy was conducted by Italy\u2019s most famous forensic pathologist, Professor Cristina Cattaneo. She discovered traces of lime in Yara\u2019s respiratory passages, and the presence of jute, a vegetable fibre used to make rope, on her clothing. Yara hadn\u2019t been raped, although her purple bra was unhooked. She had suffered multiple injuries from a sharp weapon which had pierced her clothing at various points. It seemed that she had been attacked and abandoned. She had died of exposure.The presence of lime and jute suggested the killer might be in the building trade. The forensics team retrieved two DNA samples, one from Yara\u2019s phone battery and the other from two fingers of her black gloves but neither matched any samples the authorities had on record. Two months later, in April, the commander of the scientific investigations department in Parma phoned Ruggeri. \u201cI\u2019ve got good news,\u201d he told her. \u201cThis murder has a signature. We\u2019ve found male DNA on the underwear of the deceased.\u201d It was likely that the murderer had himself been wounded in the struggle, leaving his DNA on the girl\u2019s knickers. Ruggeri and her team named the murder suspect Ignoto 1, \u201cUnknown 1\u201d. Now the hunt for Yara\u2019s killer could begin in earnest.The workload was huge, and Ruggeri divided up the duties: the police were responsible for taking DNA samples from family members, from school friends and people in the gym; the carabinieri concentrated on the phone records, cross-referencing all the mobile phones that had moved from Brembate di Sopra to Chignolo d\u2019Isola on 26 November 2010. Each phone user whose number appeared in both cells was tracked down and asked for a DNA sample.It was slow and laborious work. It took geneticists in Parma, Pavia and Rome a minimum of six hours to transform just a few samples of DNA into something which could be read, and compared, on a computer screen. The cost, in machinery and manpower, was immense and the investigation would go on to become one of the most expensive manhunts in Italian history.Yara\u2019s funeral took place on a hot morning in late May 2011. Onlookers applauded the white coffin, which was topped with a huge bouquet of white flowers, as the hearse slowly drove towards her gym. The ceremony took place in the sports hall where she had spent so many hours training, and where she had last been seen alive. Outside, a large crowd watched the funeral on a giant screen, and heard the condolences of Giorgio Napolitano, the president of the Republic.By the time of the funeral, investigators had taken thousands of DNA samples but they still had no leads. Close to the scrubland where Yara\u2019s body had been found was a nightclub called Sabbie Mobili (Quicksand). Ruggeri knew that murderers tend to dump bodies in areas with which they\u2019re very familiar, so although it seemed like a long shot, in spring 2011 investigators started taking DNA samples outside the club on busy Fridays and Saturdays. Sabbie Mobili had a reputation for violence \u2013 a young man from the Dominican Republic had been murdered outside its doors on 16 January 2011 \u2013 but the club had helpful records. Clubbers required a membership card to get in, and so the authorities could easily track down anyone who went there regularly.Ruggeri finally got a break. One of the samples from Sabbie Mobili seemed strikingly similar to the suspect, Ignoto 1. The man who gave the sample was called Damiano Guerinoni. He was quickly excluded as a suspect \u2013 he had been in South America on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance \u2013 but geneticists were convinced he was a close relative of the murderer. \u201cWe were all very excited\u201d, Ruggeri told me. \u201cWe said, \u2018bingo \u2013 just a couple of more days\u2019 [and we\u2019ll have the murderer].\u201d As Ruggeri and her team put together the jigsaw of Guerinoni\u2019s family, they made an astonishing discovery: Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s mother, Aurora Zanni, had worked for 10 years as a domestic help in the Gambirasio home. She lived nearby, and had gone to Yara\u2019s home twice a week throughout the young girl\u2019s childhood.Ruggeri resigned herself to the fact that it was just a coincidence. \u2018You couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy\u2019Zanni was a middle-aged woman who was very attached to her employers. She recalled how Yara would always ask her to watch her latest gymnastics moves, and Zanni would tell her to be careful not to hurt herself. In 2011, she was no longer working for the family but said her relationship with Yara\u2019s parents was excellent. To find herself at the centre of the investigation into Yara\u2019s murder was, Zanni said later, \u201cthe worst thing that could happen to me\u201d.\u201cObviously,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201cwe intercepted [Damiano Guerinoni and Aurora Zanni\u2019s] calls, had them followed, grilled them and tortured them, in the sense that we pressed them.\u201d It was only after months of close surveillance that Ruggeri, in the summer of 2011, resigned herself to the fact that \u201cit was just a crazy coincidence\u201d. \u201cThere was no connection\u201d, she says. \u201cYou couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy.\u201d Having seemed so close to a resolution, Ruggeri\u2019s team reluctantly discarded the angle of the domestic help. The only promising lead they still had was the fact that Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s DNA was so similar to that of Ignoto 1.A year on from Yara\u2019s murder, Ruggeri\u2019s team was now under intense pressure to find the killer. Thousands of people were being DNA tested and some locals who hadn\u2019t been approached for a sample suggested to the press that the investigation was haphazard. Politicians made personal attacks on Ruggeri. One Northern League politician, Daniele Belotti, publicly decried her incompetence, writing an open letter in January 2012 to the minister of justice asking for her to be replaced by someone \u201cof proven experience\u201d. (Ruggeri filed a lawsuit against Belotti for libel on 20 April 2012, taking particular objection to his characterisation of her as a person of \u201clow technical and moral profile\u201d.)Behind these criticisms of Ruggeri was a strong undercurrent of sexism: what hope was there that this woman could solve such a complex crime? She was unconventional, a single-mother with long salt-and-pepper hair, and five earrings in her left ear. She played classical guitar, rode to work on an old Vespa and had a blackbelt in karate. Ruggeri felt she was also being targeted because she had decided to drop the case against the Moroccan labourer, Mohammed Fikri. \u201cMany people thought I had made the wrong decision\u201d, Ruggeri told me, \u201cand they held it against me. The criticism was ferocious \u2026 I found it very tough.\u201dRuggeri decided to concentrate on the only promising lead she had: the Guerinoni DNA. Her team spent months recreating the Guerinoni family tree. When I visited her office last year, Ruggeri pulled out a folder and showed me hundreds of names, each one annotated: dates of birth, places of birth, relationships within the family. The investigators had worked out a complete genealogical tree as far back as 1815, with other branches of the family going back as far as 1716.The roots of that family tree were in the small village of Gorno. It\u2019s only 45 minutes\u2019 drive north of Bergamo itself, up the narrow Seriana Valley, but it feels like another world. You arrive through a series of hairpin bends, into a village that smells of woodsmoke and chickens. In the distance, you can hear the sound of waterfalls and cowbells. The village is full of narrow flights of steps \u2013 the only horizontal patch of land is a sandy five-aside football pitch. Although only 1,600 people live in Gorno and it seems like a quiet, pious place, according to one former parish, the village is \u201ca bit too hot, in every sense. Let\u2019s say they\u2019re a bit promiscuous.\u201d In 2011 two people in Gorno were murdered in unrelated incidents.The same families have been here for centuries, and on the village\u2019s war memorial, outside the small church, the names of Benedetto and Pietro Guerinoni are carved into the stone. The Guerinoni family were nicknamed i Fant\u00ec, the \u201cinfantry\u201d: considered by everyone to be loyal, strong, even hot-headed. Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s father had a brother, Giuseppe, who had died in 1999. Investigators visited Giuseppe\u2019s widow in September 2011 and found two stamps he had licked: one in order to validate his driving licence and another on a postcard he had sent to his family. When DNA results came back from that sample, they had another breakthrough: geneticists were convinced that Giuseppe Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1, the suspected murderer.Ruggeri\u2019s team quickly built up a picture of Giuseppe Guerinoni and his family. Giuseppe himself, a thick-set man with a rugged face, had been a bus driver who played the accordion at village festivals. His marriage, to Laura Poli, had seemed conventional. They had three children: a girl and two boys. Laura had become a Jehovah\u2019s Witness, and after her husband\u2019s death had moved to a nearby town, Clusone. Since Ignoto 1 was male, investigators concentrated on the sons, Pierpaolo and Diego. Pierpaolo was, like his mother, a Jehovah\u2019s Witness; Diego had a drug problem. Neither provided a perfect match with Ignoto 1, however, and neither of them had children.If Ignoto 1 really was the son of the late Giuseppe Guerinoni, the only explanation was that, somewhere out there, was his illegitimate child. \u201cIt became,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201can investigation within an investigation.\u201d She was now hunting a woman, presumably in middle- to old-age, who 30 or 40 years ago had had an affair with a married man, now long dead, and given birth to a boy who went on to murder Yara Gambirasio.It proved extremely difficult for investigators to penetrate the mountain villages \u2013 Ponte Selva, Parre, Clusone and Rovetta \u2013 where they were looking for clues and leads. Some Italian journalists spoke of the \u201ccocciutaggine\u201d, or pig-headedness, of the Bergamo Alps \u2013 a caricature which only served to antagonise the already defensive locals. \u201cThe people here,\u201d says Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, \u201cwere irritated by the stereotype of highlanders closed in on themselves. The word \u201comert\u00e0\u201d was even used, which implies [the silence of] Sicily and the mafia. It was deeply offensive.\u201dThere was incomprehension on both sides. The investigation was, by Italian standards, unusually secretive. Locals couldn\u2019t understand why police hunting the murderer of a 13-year-old girl were taking DNA samples of elderly women. Bonicelli \u2013 a fan of the fictional detectives Maigret and Montalbano \u2013 says that the investigation \u201cwas lacking the traditional, human element: the sort of person who goes into a bar in the village \u2026 and puts someone at ease so that something slips out.\u201d Locals felt there was something cold about this investigation, with its invasive demands for DNA samples. And it was changing the atmosphere in these small communities. People thought, says Bonicelli, \u201cthat the murderer was here, amongst us. So there was a sort of \u2013 not panic, but fear.\u201dInvestigators knew that from the early 1960s onwards, for two weeks every May, Giuseppe Guerinoni used to go to a spa resort called Salice Terme, south of Milan, without his wife. Throughout the spring of 2012, Ruggeri\u2019s team scoured records and registers, tracking all the women who had stayed in the resort at the same time of year as Guerinoni. They searched orphanages and homes for \u201cfallen women\u201d; they tested single mothers and women who had left the mountains for lower Bergamo. They came up empty-handed. The woman they were looking for, they realised, was probably neither single nor \u201cfallen\u201d, but hidden behind the walls of a marriage. Divorce was only legalised in Italy in 1970 \u2013 until that time many couples had stayed together despite infidelities.By the time Ruggeri was searching for Ignoto 1\u2019s mother, Yara\u2019s parents had hired their own expert, a freelance geneticist, in order to review the investigation and explain it to them. For almost a year Giorgio Portera lobbied for the exhumation of Giuseppe Guerinoni\u2019s body from the cemetery in Gorno. He was concerned that investigators has only been able to compare 13 Short Tandem Repeat (STR) regions, which are sequences of DNA, with the DNA of Ignoto 1. Confirmation of paternity demands that at least 15 STR regions be compared. So early on 7 March, 2013, workmen chiselled into Guerinoni\u2019s loculo, the horizontal slot in a cemetery wall where his coffin was kept, and removed his remains. They were transferred by carabinieri to the Papa Giovanni XXIII hospital in Bergamo for examination before being returned to Gorno just a few hours later. A couple of camera crews, and a few bewildered villagers, watched. When DNA was extracted from his remains, 29 STR regions could be compared. It was now absolutely certain that Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1.As the investigation dragged on through 2013, the public slowly became aware of why a woman was being sought. It became common knowledge that the late Giuseppe Guerinoni had had a lover, and that she was thought to be the mother of the murderer. \u201cWe have rediscovered,\u201d wrote one journalist, \u201cthat accursed desire for gossip which spices up small-town life. Now, here, everyone wants to know whose son so-and-so is.\u201dLong-forgotten infidelities and old suspicions surfaced. Bonicelli laughs as he describes how his journalists discovered five illegitimate children in two small villages: \u201cFive! We could have started a gossip magazine. It was like an open sewer: we were receiving anonymous letters, stories, people telling us about backgrounds and cuckolds.\u201d A society which had always prided itself on its sense of loyalty and traditional Catholicism, suddenly discovered the betrayals in its midst. \u201cPerhaps the point is this,\u201d Bonicelli wrote in an editorial, \u201cwe don\u2019t know each other any more.\u201dUntil this point, the investigation had been characterised by cutting-edge, scientific analysis, but it was an old-fashioned detective who broke the case open. Marshall Giovanni Mocerino was Ruggeri\u2019s right-hand man, working in the office next to hers. His desk is covered in hundreds of scraps of paper, scrawled with names and numbers in different coloured inks. Mocerino has bushy grey hair and black-rimmed glasses and speaks in a light-hearted, informal manner. But he\u2019s also, by his own admission, a capotosta, a stubborn man: \u201cI get fucked off when I can\u2019t solve a case,\u201d he told me. Because of this case, he said, \u201cI haven\u2019t had a holiday for four years.\u201dAlthough Mocerino was born in the south, near Naples, he had lived in the Bergamo Alps area since 1983 and he had come to know the region well. He was always talking with local people, and \u201csensitised\u201d, as he said, thousands to the case. He reminded them that, amid all the gossip about infidelities that had been sparked off by the hunt for Guerinoni\u2019s lover, a young girl had been killed. By 2013, he knew everything about Guerinoni\u2019s life: born in Gorno, Guerinoni had moved in the mid-1960s to Ponte Selva, a nearby settlement which had grown up around the bridge over the Serio river. He drove a public bus for the Motallini (later SAB) bus company. In the 1960s and 70s he would have driven plenty of young women to and from jobs in the various textile factories.Mocerino questioned Guerinoni\u2019s fellow bus drivers, one of whom had already gone to the press in March 2013 saying that Guerinoni had confessed to having got a young woman \u201cin trouble\u201d. Another former colleague described Guerinoni as a \u201cman\u201d with a \u201ccapital M\u201d, implying that he was a womaniser. But it wasn\u2019t until June 2014, that one of Mocerino\u2019s sources finally gave him the name he was looking for. Mocerino has always protected his sources, and refuses to confirm who first whispered the name of the mystery woman to him but however it came about, investigators had the final piece of the jigsaw: Ester Arzuffi.Arzuffi had been a neighbour of Guerinoni\u2019s in Ponte Selva in the late 1960s. In 1966, aged 19, she had married Gianni Bossetti from Parre, a nearby village. Bossetti was a man whose tough life had turned him inwards: he had been orphaned young and suffered from psoriasis, arthrosis and depression. Arzuffi seemed very different: an outgoing, good-looking woman, she wore short skirts and dyed her hair. She got a job at the textile factory a few miles away in Villa d\u2019Ogna, and took the bus every day.Ruggeri\u2019s team immediately cross-checked the DNA samples they had, and discovered that Arzuffi had already been tested in July 2012. They double-checked, and realised that a basic error had been made by a geneticist in Rome \u2013 Arzuffi\u2019s DNA had been compared not to Ignoto 1\u2019s, but to Yara\u2019s. Now investigators hurriedly reran the test and discovered that Arzuffi was, indeed, the woman they had spent so long looking for. She was the mother of Ignoto 1.Arzuffi had left Ponte Selva in 1970, but she had continued her affair with Guerinoni, and in the autumn of 1970 she gave birth to twins \u2013 a boy and a girl. The boy was called Massimo Bossetti (his middle name was Giuseppe, like his biological father). A slim boy who loved to party, he was nicknamed \u201cthe animal\u201d by his friends. He was now 42, a builder, married with three children and living in Mapello, the hamlet near Yara\u2019s hometown where the last signal from Yara\u2019s cell phone had been recorded on 26 November 2010. He was short, with piercing blue eyes, and had a peroxided, pencil goatee.Ruggeri moved fast. On 15 June 2014, she set up a fake roadblock breathalysing drivers. When her police officers stopped Massimo Bossetti, they pretended the machine hadn\u2019t worked the first time, so they could get two good samples. His DNA was immediately sent for overnight tests and results showed it was an exact match with Ignoto 1. One geneticist told me that the chance of a random match between Ignoto 1 and Massimo Bossetti was 2 x 10-27.Ruggeri wanted to observe Bossetti before arresting him, to study his movements and behaviour from a distance, but she was also worried that the news would get out and that he might leave town. On 16 June, Bossetti was arrested and charged with the murder of Yara Gambirasio. The Italian home secretary himself released a statement announcing his arrest. Reaction in the mountains of Bergamo, centre of the investigation, was relief: the murder suspect was from lower Bergamo.The suspect's internet history\u2028 was troubling, using search \u2028words which implied a compulsion \u2028for pubescent young girlsInvestigators discovered plenty of circumstantial evidence. Bossetti had frequently hung around Yara\u2019s house; he parked his car in Via Don Sala, behind the gym, and ate at the Toscanaccia pizzeria at the end of her road. He had gone for regular UV showers at a tanning shop nearby. His internet searches were troubling, using search words which implied a compulsion for pubescent young girls. More pertinently, records suggested that his phone had been present in Brembate di Sopra on the evening of Yara\u2019s disappearance, but had been switched off from 5.45pm until the following morning at 7.34am. For Ruggeri, the arrest was the reward for almost four years of dogged investigative work. After enduring a barrage of criticism for alleged incompetence, she was now feted for her brilliance.The case is likely to come to trial this spring. Bossetti maintains his innocence, and his lawyers are planning to contest the DNA evidence, claiming that DNA merely indicates \u201cpresence, not responsibility\u201d. Meanwhile, three families are dealing with the devastation of the case. Guerinoni\u2019s widow has been forced, in the autumn of her life, to come to terms with her husband\u2019s infidelity and the existence of his other children. Meanwhile, just as he was diagnosed with terminal cancer, Giovanni Bossetti became the nation\u2019s most famous cuckold, learning at the same time as the rest of the country that none of his three children are his (leaks from the investigation revealed that Ester Arzuffi\u2019s third child, Fabio, also had a different father). The marriage of the accused, Massimo Bossetti, has also come under strain: since his defence sought to portray him as a family man, two people have come forward to claim that they had affairs with his wife. Such is the local loathing for Bossetti that since his arrest, his twin sister \u2013 herself coming to terms with both her brother\u2019s fate and the fact that the man she thought was her father is not biologically related to her \u2013 has twice been beaten up. Her mother, Ester Arzuffi, still denies that she\u2019s ever been unfaithful to her husband.The Gambirasio family, meanwhile, has remained private. Recently, awarding a gymnastics trophy named after her daughter, Maura Gambirasio struggled to smile and made no public comments. She\u2019s cut her hair short and looks gaunt. Yara is buried between her two grandparents in a cemetery just across the road from her gym. There\u2019s no date on her tombstone, only a signature next to a photograph of her wearing a white alice band. All around the grave are mementoes left by her friends: gym shoes, a metal tulip, rag dolls, plastic angels and little bracelets. Often, in the early evening, you see Yara\u2019s father, Fulvio, standing here, gazing at the resting place of his parents and his daughter.Tobias Jones\u2019s A Place of Refuge will be published by Quercus in May Follow the Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread\u2022 This article was amended on 13 January 2015 to clarify that a DNA sample came from Yara Gambirasio\u2019s phone battery.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Crime"], "title": "The murder that obsessed Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2015-03-11T16:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lovingly crushing four halves of garlic cloves on the bottom of the pan, Roberto turns to me saying: \u201cyou need to put passion into it\u201d. Once the white triangles are glazed in a film of Tuscan oil, he places the pan on the stove. \u201cIn cooking you need to take your time,\u201d he continues, opening a plastic container to let me taste the previously stewed spinach we bought in what used to be Lucca\u2019s bovine market, or Foro Boario, now a weekly farmers\u2019 market.Since the central market within the city walls is undergoing restoration and, no doubt, gentrification, this establishment is growing in popularity. Unlike the farmers\u2019 markets I\u2019m accustomed to in London, here all vegetables are exclusively local and seasonal. Eyeing what seemed like a cross between a carrot and a parsnip, we are told the vegetable\u2019s name is \u201cpriest\u2019s beard\u201d on account of its green shoots. The stallholder assured us they are sweet and can be grated and cooked in tomato sauce to make a pleasant dip. Roberto buys a bunch, musing on its culinary possibilities.After adding a few drops of tomato concentrate, I\u2019m invited to sniff the oil impregnated with garlic. Now the spinach is carefully ladled out in the pan and is used as a contorno for slices of turkey that have been marinated in oil, garlic, lemon juice and rosemary. Herbs are the most distinguishing feature of Italian regional cuisine and rosemary, sage, thyme, marjoram and nipitella (a kind of wild mint) are typically Tuscan. Roberto\u2019s cuisine reverberates with Etruscan ancestry: wild boar, pork and game accompanied by cavolo nero, mushrooms, pulses and spelt.As I leaf through a cookbook unlocking its tasty secrets, the author reminds us that the Maremma region is sweet and the inhabitants \u2018\u201cincredibly hospitable\u201d. In comparison, Lucca\u2019s mentality is walled and closed \u2013 something of an anathema to Roberto\u2019s more open-minded Maremman roots.What are we eating tomorrow? Orecchiette alle cime di rapa. Admittedly, orecchiette are Puglian and the dish closely resembles the Sicilian pasta du malu tempu made with broccoli, raisins and anchovies. If this name is anything to go by, the following day\u2019s downpour gastronomically reflects the bad weather accompaniment to our lunch.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Italy: Cuisine, infused with garlic, herbs and admiration"},{"date": "2015-02-25T10:48:35Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Sunday night\u2019s Oscars saw Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu\u2019s Hollywood satire Birdman win big with four awards, including best picture. But the victory has provoked unexpected controversy in Italy, where the film was first seen.The star-studded tale of a former A-lister trying to stage a comeback was originally launched on the opening night of the Venice film festival last August, where it won great acclaim and was seen as a frontrunner for top prize the Golden Lion. But Swedish director Roy Andersson\u2019s surrealist comedy A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting Existence ended up bagging the Lion; a decision that has now caused some ire in the Italian press.\u201cWe are left with a bitter taste in our mouth for that film, about which we could have said that it won the Golden Lion before the Oscars,\u201d read a story in Turin paper La Stampa, while entertainment site Dagospia sought to remind the \u201cotherworldly\u201d jury that \u201cHollywood movies aren\u2019t shit\u201d.But officials from Venice have used Birdman\u2019s win to highlight the festival\u2019s continued relevance on the world stage. \u201cIf the finest and most dynamic film industry in the world entrusts the world premiere of films aspiring to the Oscars to the Venice film festival, this seems to me an important sign of the international prestige that our Festival enjoys today,\u201d read a statement from Paolo Baratta, president of the Biennale.Birdman was the opening night film at Venice last year; in 2013 that spot went to Gravity, which went on to win seven Oscars, including best director for Alfonso Cuar\u00f3n. But while that spot in the schedule is likely to become ever more coveted, the winner of the Golden Lion has rarely been seen as a bellwether of awards glory. Recent winners including Alexander Sokurov\u2019s Faust and the Italian documentary Sacro GRA.", "tags": ["Birdman", "Oscars 2015", "Venice film festival 2014", "Oscars", "Alejandro Gonz\u00e1lez I\u00f1\u00e1rritu", "Venice film festival", "A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence", "Film", "Culture", "Awards and prizes", "Festivals"], "title": "Birdman's Oscar triumph ruffles feathers in Italy"},{"date": "2015-02-16T00:28:45Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Michele Ferrero, who built up a sweet fortune with his Nutella empire, died on Saturday with a legacy lauded by the Italian president and chocolate lovers globally.Ferrero, 89, died in Monte Carlo after months of illness, leaving a country that had grown up on his chocolate creations in mourning. \u201cWe are proud of you. Thank you, Michele,\u201d read a note on the website of Ferrero, the family business started by his father, Pietro, in 1942.Italy\u2019s president, Sergio Mattarella, sent a telegram to the family to express his deep emotion on learning of the billionaire confectioner\u2019s death. \u201cFerrero was for many years a champion of Italian business, always succeeding in keeping up with the times thanks to innovative products and his hard work and reserved [nature]. Italians remember him with gratitude, also for his work supporting and promoting culture,\u201d Mattarella wrote.Local press described the \u201cgreat upset\u201d in his home town of Alba, in north-west Italy, where Ferrero\u2019s business empire was born. \u201cItalian industry grieves for one of its great protagonists,\u201d the Gazzetta d\u2019Alba said.In a country beset by economic woes, where the wealthy have come under fire for their lavish lifestyles and countless corruption scandals, the outpouring of grief for Italy\u2019s richest man may seem out of place. Ferrero\u2019s net worth was estimated as $23.4bn (\u00a315.2bn), making him \u201cthe richest candyman on the planet\u201d according to Forbes. But by shunning the limelight and becoming the key driver of the global success of the business, he commanded great respect at home and abroad.He took over the family firm from his pastry-maker father, who in the 1940s began blending hazelnuts and cocoa into a chocolatey mix that was ultimately christened Nutella. When Ferrero took over, he went against common wisdom and drove an ambitious international agenda.In an interview released after his death, Ferrero recounted the \u201cmoving\u201d moment he brought cherry chocolates called Mon Ch\u00e9ri to Germany. \u201cWhen we arrived it was after the war, a country still full of ruins with the signs of the conflict, sad, depressed, in which Italians were viewed very badly,\u201d he told Italian daily La Stampa. \u201cI thought of something that would raise morale, that each day could sweeten the lives of the Germans \u2026 at a price accessible to everyone.\u201dWinning over post-war Europeans with Mon Ch\u00e9ri was the start of success abroad, cemented in 1983 when the first tub of Nutella arrived in the US. Ferrero Rocher chocolates had been created a year earlier, to be forever associated with ambassadors\u2019 parties thanks to TV adverts.While Ferrero\u2019s son Giovanni took over the business, he was said to have never retired. Speaking softly, he revealed his secret to La Stampa: \u201cAlways act differently to the others, have faith, stay strong and put customers at the centre each day.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Food & drink", "World news"], "title": "Italy mourns Nutella creator Michele Ferrero"},{"date": "2015-01-18T12:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "It is my birthday and I am in a candlelit, monastic-feeling dining room with 11 strangers, eating in silence. For 45 minutes, over a four-course meal and, thankfully, plenty of red wine, we wordlessly appreciate the excellent food, to a background of Ennio Morricone\u2019s increasingly manic soundtrack to 1986 film The Mission. I have to stifle giggles as everyone resorts to exaggerated gestures and cartoonish facial expressions to show gratitude for the passing of a bread basket or water jug, and eventually I fail to suppress a sneeze which breaks the peace.I\u2019ve chosen this somewhat humourless way of celebrating to road-test the latest travel fad: the digital detox. In this age of information overload, holidaymakers increasingly perfer a break from the treadmill of technological lives filled with 24/7 notifications and spam. Got it bad like me? Time to check in to eco-hotel Eremito \u2013 the name comes from eremita, meaning hermit \u2013 in rolling Umbrian hills south-west of Perugia.Quite how remote the place is becomes clear two hours into our journey from Rome. Suddenly, our smart people carrier pulls up and we are transferred to a battered Jeep. The final stretch up a dirt track that follows is a series of bumps, near-vertical slopes and, at one point, driving straight through a river. The sight of the hotel coming in to view is a relief. As is the lack of phone signal.We enter through a narrow cloister-like passage: there are tiny spotlights in the floor that resemble tea lights, and real candles too, about 400 of them. An overpowering aroma of incense and the sound of Gregorian chant fill the air. The lobby is full of rugs and cushion seating, with a fire crackling in one corner.As owner Marcello Murzilli is showing us around the hotel, a storm breaks outside \u2013 as if ordered to enhance the atmosphere. Murzilli, a fashion designer who set up the eco-friendly Hotelito Desconocido on Mexico\u2019s Pacific coast, is a warm and welcoming host. He explains the philosophy behind the experience as we sit in a small chapel at the top of the building. \u201cIn the middle of nature we are nothing,\u201d he says. Lightning flashes at the windows as he speaks.The hotel is aimed at solo travellers, which means that even if you visit as a couple, you have to sleep apart. \u201cEat, pray, but don\u2019t love,\u201d as one of my fellow guests astutely puts it. The nine-square-metre rooms or celluzze, based on monastic cells, are simple but impeccably designed. A desk and chair are cut out of the local stone which has been used to cave-like effect to build this hermit\u2019s paradise. Traditional hemp-yarn sheets are not particularly soft but aesthetically perfect, even though they\u2019re a nightmare to wash, apparently. Light fittings have been handmade by artisans. It\u2019s all very Instragramable - if there was Wi-Fi.There is something oddly luxurious about the simplicity of the place, which makes it an apt addition to the Design Hotels roster. Murzilli is interested in \u201cthe spirit of the essential\u201d as a counter to the \u201cmany things in life we don\u2019t appreciate\u201d. His decade of research before opening the hotel a year ago involved visits to no fewer than 50 monasteries, and he believes he has come up with the perfect contemporary interpretation. A priest has been for a tour and approved. His dream guest would be Pope Francis.Time at Eremito is best spent making the most of what is on offer within the walls, including the yoga and meditative spa facilities. But if you get cabin-feverish, the hotel is surrounded by nature. On a riverside walk from the edge of the grounds we spot wild asparagus and fennel growing in abundance; an overpowering scent of wild mint fills the air as green woodpeckers swoop by.It would be a shame to venture further afield and miss a meal, as the room price is full-board. Food is vegetarian, unfussy and for the most part locally grown and homemade: Tuscan bean soup, very apt strozzapreti (or \u201cpriest-choker\u201d) pasta, and salads, all with lashings of olive oil. The only meal taken in silence is dinner, which is a bit awkward at first but almost pleasurable once you\u2019ve got the knack of it.There is no spiritual awakening for me, but even a couple of days at Eremito is quite an intense experience \u2013 I don\u2019t envy the German woman who has booked in for a fortnight. Yet after a soak in the Jacuzzi and a nap on the sun terrace looking out over the valley, I am feeling genuinely refreshed, and not just because of the lack of contact with the outside world.Whether you are cut out for the monk\u2019s life or not, this is an ideal place to go to take some time out and recharge.\u2022 The trip was provided by Design Hotels; rooms at the Eremito from \u00a3164pp pn full-board", "tags": ["Umbria holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Italy holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Luxury travel"], "title": "A digital detox in Umbria, Italy"},{"date": "2015-01-08T06:00:01Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Yara Gambirasio should only have been gone a short while. On Friday 26 November 2010, at 5.15pm, she left home to go to the gym, just a few hundred metres from her home. Yara, who was 13 and wore train-track braces, was preparing for her rhythmic gymnastics display the following Sunday. All she needed to do was drop off a stereo with her instructor. She said goodbye to her family, who knew where she was going, and left the house.By 7pm, Yara had still not come home and her parents were becoming increasingly anxious. The town where they lived, Brembate di Sopra, was a sedate place, on the so-called \u201cBergamask island\u201d between the rivers Brembo and Adda. An hour north of Milan, and just south of the Bergamo Alps, it has a population of 8,000. From its quiet streets, lined with poplars and cypresses, you can see the wooded mountains in the distance, the peaks turning blue-grey. At 7.11pm, Yara\u2019s mother phoned her daughter, but the call went straight to voicemail. Twenty minutes later, Yara\u2019s father called the police.The call was put through to the public prosecutor\u2019s office, in the centre of the provincial capital Bergamo, a city 11km east of Brembate di Sopra. The magistrate on duty was Letizia Ruggeri, 45, a tough former policewoman who had earned her stripes fighting Cosa Nostra in Sicily. She had been a magistrate for almost 15 years, and knew what needed to be done. Within minutes she had dispatched both state police officers and carabinieri, military police, to Brembate di Sopra.Yara\u2019s gym instructor confirmed that she had seen the teenager earlier that day and that she had done some light training before heading off. The police quickly established that the last known contact with Yara was a text message she had sent to a friend, Martina, at 6.44pm, agreeing to meet at 8am the following Sunday. That was the last anyone heard from her.The gym was part of a large sports complex, a garish building with many entrances and exits. Besides the large sports hall there was a running track, a swimming pool, and various courts. A few people said they\u2019d seen two men \u2013 possibly in conversation with Yara, standing near a red car \u2013 but there was little more to go on than that.Ruggeri called in tracker dogs: a breed of bloodhound, Segugio Italiano, with short, brown and black hair, long ears, doleful eyes and a keen sense of smell. Instead of following the expected route back to Yara\u2019s home in Via Rampinelli, Ruggeri\u2019s dogs went in the opposite direction, towards a small hamlet nearby called Mapello. When the team analysed the last signals from Yara\u2019s mobile phone, the result showed that it had been registered as present in Mapello at 18.49 that evening.Everything seemed to point away from Yara\u2019s family, but investigations of this type always start at home. Over the next few days, Ruggeri and her team questioned every member of the Gambirasio family, looking for signs of discord or dark secrets. Yara\u2019s parents were well-known and respected: her father, Fulvio, was a large, solid man with thick glasses, an architect whose father had been the local postman, like his mother before him. Maura, Fulvio\u2019s wife, was a teacher in Longuelo, a nearby town. The marriage appeared strong, they had four children: Yara had an older sister, Keba, 15, and two younger brothers, Natan and Gioele, both under 10.Ruggeri put wiretaps on hundreds of phones. Her team also tried to trace the owners of all the handsets \u2013 some 15,000 \u2013 which had passed through Mapello on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance. One of these belonged to a Moroccan man called Mohammed Fikri. In one wiretapped conversation, in late November, the interpreter heard the phrase: \u201cForgive me God, I didn\u2019t kill her\u201d. Fikri had been working in a builders\u2019 yard in Mapello, but by the time investigators had put the pieces together, a few days later, he was on a boat bound for Tangiers. On 4 December, Italian authorities intercepted the vessel and arrested Fikri. They searched the van he had been using and discovered that it contained a blood-stained mattress. \u201cPeople liked him as the guilty party,\u201d Ruggeri told me ruefully last year, \u201cbecause he was foreign.\u201d But Fikri was quickly cleared. The phrase had been mistranslated, and the blood was extraneous to the investigation.As autumn slipped into winter, Brembate di Sopra found itself at the centre of a mystery which had captured the country\u2019s imagination. Italian TV is dominated by cronache nere, crime news, and now national camera crews descended. The Gambirasio family were horrified by the sudden glare of publicity. TV cameras became a permanent fixture in their quiet cul-de-sac. The family locked themselves away, lowering their shutters and even turning down the idea of a torchlight procession to raise awareness. Instead, nuns from the Ursuline order, who taught at Yara\u2019s school, came to pray with Maura. A mass was held instead of the procession, and the rare statements from the parents were devout pleas for privacy and patience.The reticence of the Gambirasio family reflected the culture of this region. The province of Bergamo is much closer to Switzerland than Naples and the Bergamaschi are generally more reserved than their southern countrymen. \u201cIt\u2019s in the spirit of mountain people to disdain gossip and not to repeat nonsense,\u201d Piero Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, a colourful local newspaper, told me. \u201cIf I don\u2019t know something, if I have only heard it said, I don\u2019t say anything until I\u2019m certain it\u2019s true.\u201dDesperate to discover the whereabouts of their daughter, the Gambirasio family did share some photographs of Yara with the press in the days after her disappearance \u2013 Yara queueing to take communion; doing the splits in the gym; a studio photo of her in a yellow top; in an Italy football shirt; on the beach \u2013 but no one came forward with any useful information. When her parents finally made a televised appeal, a few days after their first Christmas without Yara, they looked awkward. Maura was so uncomfortable she was, unintentionally, rolling her eyes. Fulvio, who wore a rugby shirt, hesitantly read a plea: \u201cHelp us return to normality\u201d. He explained that the family values were \u201clove, respect and honesty\u201d, and that they would be giving no interviews.This wariness towards outsiders owes much to the region\u2019s history. Bergamo is still called, in local dialect, \u201cB\u00e8rghem\u201d, an old name which means \u201cthe town of the mountain\u201d. The city has always been a strategically important citadel, one of the last redoubts before the flat, fertile basin of the river Po. The Bergamaschi are used to seeing off invasions. Just a few miles west of Brembate di Sopra is a small town called Pontida, where in 1167 the Lombard League \u2013 the alliance of northern Italian cities which joined together to resist the German Holy Roman emperor, Frederick I \u2013 was formed. The Oath of Pontida still exerts a symbolic power today. It\u2019s frequently evoked by the separatists of the Northern League to rally sentiment against outsiders: against the perceived indolence and corruption of southern Italy or, more commonly now, against immigrants from developing nations.This setting was part of what fascinated the Italian public about Yara\u2019s disappearance. The province of Bergamo seemed to represent two different sides of the country. Where Lower Bergamo, towards the plains, is fashionable, well-connected and industrialised, Alpine Bergamo is agricultural, remote and deeply traditional, a close-knit place which nurtures suspicion, even superstition. Some locals talk, without irony, of this being a land of streghe, of witches, who steal or poison young children.Yara\u2019s disappearance has continued to grip the Italian public over the past four years, becoming one of the most extraordinary, and sophisticated, criminal investigations in Italian history. \u201cIt\u2019s like a novel\u201d, a newspaper editor once told me, shaking his head. When I recently asked Ruggeri, the chief investigator, to sum up the case, she stared at her desk and just said \u201cincredible\u201d four times.On the afternoon of 26 February 2011, exactly three months after Yara disappeared, a middle-aged man named Ilario Scotti was flying his radio-controlled plane in the small town of Chignolo d\u2019Isola, 10km south of Brembate di Sopra. Chignolo is surrounded by industrial estates, and the scrubland by Via Bedeschi seemed like a safe, unpopulated place for Scotti to try out his new model aircraft. The model aeroplane wasn\u2019t functioning as Scotti wanted, though, so he brought it down to earth amid the tall weeds. As he picked up his plane, he caught sight of some rags on the ground nearby. At first, he thought someone had been fly-tipping. Then he saw the shoes.Ruggeri was coming back from a day\u2019s skiing with her daughter when she got the call that a body had been found. She dropped her daughter at home and went straight to the crime scene. The body was in an advanced state of decomposition, but Ruggeri could see the black bomber jacket with its elasticated waist which Yara had been wearing when she left home in November. There, too, was her Hello Kitty sweatshirt. Crime scene investigators found Yara\u2019s iPod and house keys, as well as the sim card and battery for her LG phone. The phone itself was missing.\u201cIt was a relief,\u201d Ruggeri told me later. \u201cYara\u2019s disappearance had really disturbed me \u2013 I\u2019m a mother too, and the only thing worse than the death of a child is the disappearance of a child.\u201dThe autopsy was conducted by Italy\u2019s most famous forensic pathologist, Professor Cristina Cattaneo. She discovered traces of lime in Yara\u2019s respiratory passages, and the presence of jute, a vegetable fibre used to make rope, on her clothing. Yara hadn\u2019t been raped, although her purple bra was unhooked. She had suffered multiple injuries from a sharp weapon which had pierced her clothing at various points. It seemed that she had been attacked and abandoned. She had died of exposure.The presence of lime and jute suggested the killer might be in the building trade. The forensics team retrieved two DNA samples, one from Yara\u2019s phone battery and the other from two fingers of her black gloves but neither matched any samples the authorities had on record. Two months later, in April, the commander of the scientific investigations department in Parma phoned Ruggeri. \u201cI\u2019ve got good news,\u201d he told her. \u201cThis murder has a signature. We\u2019ve found male DNA on the underwear of the deceased.\u201d It was likely that the murderer had himself been wounded in the struggle, leaving his DNA on the girl\u2019s knickers. Ruggeri and her team named the murder suspect Ignoto 1, \u201cUnknown 1\u201d. Now the hunt for Yara\u2019s killer could begin in earnest.The workload was huge, and Ruggeri divided up the duties: the police were responsible for taking DNA samples from family members, from school friends and people in the gym; the carabinieri concentrated on the phone records, cross-referencing all the mobile phones that had moved from Brembate di Sopra to Chignolo d\u2019Isola on 26 November 2010. Each phone user whose number appeared in both cells was tracked down and asked for a DNA sample.It was slow and laborious work. It took geneticists in Parma, Pavia and Rome a minimum of six hours to transform just a few samples of DNA into something which could be read, and compared, on a computer screen. The cost, in machinery and manpower, was immense and the investigation would go on to become one of the most expensive manhunts in Italian history.Yara\u2019s funeral took place on a hot morning in late May 2011. Onlookers applauded the white coffin, which was topped with a huge bouquet of white flowers, as the hearse slowly drove towards her gym. The ceremony took place in the sports hall where she had spent so many hours training, and where she had last been seen alive. Outside, a large crowd watched the funeral on a giant screen, and heard the condolences of Giorgio Napolitano, the president of the Republic.By the time of the funeral, investigators had taken thousands of DNA samples but they still had no leads. Close to the scrubland where Yara\u2019s body had been found was a nightclub called Sabbie Mobili (Quicksand). Ruggeri knew that murderers tend to dump bodies in areas with which they\u2019re very familiar, so although it seemed like a long shot, in spring 2011 investigators started taking DNA samples outside the club on busy Fridays and Saturdays. Sabbie Mobili had a reputation for violence \u2013 a young man from the Dominican Republic had been murdered outside its doors on 16 January 2011 \u2013 but the club had helpful records. Clubbers required a membership card to get in, and so the authorities could easily track down anyone who went there regularly.Ruggeri finally got a break. One of the samples from Sabbie Mobili seemed strikingly similar to the suspect, Ignoto 1. The man who gave the sample was called Damiano Guerinoni. He was quickly excluded as a suspect \u2013 he had been in South America on the day of Yara\u2019s disappearance \u2013 but geneticists were convinced he was a close relative of the murderer. \u201cWe were all very excited\u201d, Ruggeri told me. \u201cWe said, \u2018bingo \u2013 just a couple of more days\u2019 [and we\u2019ll have the murderer].\u201d As Ruggeri and her team put together the jigsaw of Guerinoni\u2019s family, they made an astonishing discovery: Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s mother, Aurora Zanni, had worked for 10 years as a domestic help in the Gambirasio home. She lived nearby, and had gone to Yara\u2019s home twice a week throughout the young girl\u2019s childhood.Ruggeri resigned herself to the fact that it was just a coincidence. \u2018You couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy\u2019Zanni was a middle-aged woman who was very attached to her employers. She recalled how Yara would always ask her to watch her latest gymnastics moves, and Zanni would tell her to be careful not to hurt herself. In 2011, she was no longer working for the family but said her relationship with Yara\u2019s parents was excellent. To find herself at the centre of the investigation into Yara\u2019s murder was, Zanni said later, \u201cthe worst thing that could happen to me\u201d.\u201cObviously,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201cwe intercepted [Damiano Guerinoni and Aurora Zanni\u2019s] calls, had them followed, grilled them and tortured them, in the sense that we pressed them.\u201d It was only after months of close surveillance that Ruggeri, in the summer of 2011, resigned herself to the fact that \u201cit was just a crazy coincidence\u201d. \u201cThere was no connection\u201d, she says. \u201cYou couldn\u2019t make it up. This whole case is crazy.\u201d Having seemed so close to a resolution, Ruggeri\u2019s team reluctantly discarded the angle of the domestic help. The only promising lead they still had was the fact that Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s DNA was so similar to that of Ignoto 1.A year on from Yara\u2019s murder, Ruggeri\u2019s team was now under intense pressure to find the killer. Thousands of people were being DNA tested and some locals who hadn\u2019t been approached for a sample suggested to the press that the investigation was haphazard. Politicians made personal attacks on Ruggeri. One Northern League politician, Daniele Belotti, publicly decried her incompetence, writing an open letter in January 2012 to the minister of justice asking for her to be replaced by someone \u201cof proven experience\u201d. (Ruggeri filed a lawsuit against Belotti for libel on 20 April 2012, taking particular objection to his characterisation of her as a person of \u201clow technical and moral profile\u201d.)Behind these criticisms of Ruggeri was a strong undercurrent of sexism: what hope was there that this woman could solve such a complex crime? She was unconventional, a single-mother with long salt-and-pepper hair, and five earrings in her left ear. She played classical guitar, rode to work on an old Vespa and had a blackbelt in karate. Ruggeri felt she was also being targeted because she had decided to drop the case against the Moroccan labourer, Mohammed Fikri. \u201cMany people thought I had made the wrong decision\u201d, Ruggeri told me, \u201cand they held it against me. The criticism was ferocious \u2026 I found it very tough.\u201dRuggeri decided to concentrate on the only promising lead she had: the Guerinoni DNA. Her team spent months recreating the Guerinoni family tree. When I visited her office last year, Ruggeri pulled out a folder and showed me hundreds of names, each one annotated: dates of birth, places of birth, relationships within the family. The investigators had worked out a complete genealogical tree as far back as 1815, with other branches of the family going back as far as 1716.The roots of that family tree were in the small village of Gorno. It\u2019s only 45 minutes\u2019 drive north of Bergamo itself, up the narrow Seriana Valley, but it feels like another world. You arrive through a series of hairpin bends, into a village that smells of woodsmoke and chickens. In the distance, you can hear the sound of waterfalls and cowbells. The village is full of narrow flights of steps \u2013 the only horizontal patch of land is a sandy five-aside football pitch. Although only 1,600 people live in Gorno and it seems like a quiet, pious place, according to one former parish, the village is \u201ca bit too hot, in every sense. Let\u2019s say they\u2019re a bit promiscuous.\u201d In 2011 two people in Gorno were murdered in unrelated incidents.The same families have been here for centuries, and on the village\u2019s war memorial, outside the small church, the names of Benedetto and Pietro Guerinoni are carved into the stone. The Guerinoni family were nicknamed i Fant\u00ec, the \u201cinfantry\u201d: considered by everyone to be loyal, strong, even hot-headed. Damiano Guerinoni\u2019s father had a brother, Giuseppe, who had died in 1999. Investigators visited Giuseppe\u2019s widow in September 2011 and found two stamps he had licked: one in order to validate his driving licence and another on a postcard he had sent to his family. When DNA results came back from that sample, they had another breakthrough: geneticists were convinced that Giuseppe Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1, the suspected murderer.Ruggeri\u2019s team quickly built up a picture of Giuseppe Guerinoni and his family. Giuseppe himself, a thick-set man with a rugged face, had been a bus driver who played the accordion at village festivals. His marriage, to Laura Poli, had seemed conventional. They had three children: a girl and two boys. Laura had become a Jehovah\u2019s Witness, and after her husband\u2019s death had moved to a nearby town, Clusone. Since Ignoto 1 was male, investigators concentrated on the sons, Pierpaolo and Diego. Pierpaolo was, like his mother, a Jehovah\u2019s Witness; Diego had a drug problem. Neither provided a perfect match with Ignoto 1, however, and neither of them had children.If Ignoto 1 really was the son of the late Giuseppe Guerinoni, the only explanation was that, somewhere out there, was his illegitimate child. \u201cIt became,\u201d Ruggeri says, \u201can investigation within an investigation.\u201d She was now hunting a woman, presumably in middle- to old-age, who 30 or 40 years ago had had an affair with a married man, now long dead, and given birth to a boy who went on to murder Yara Gambirasio.It proved extremely difficult for investigators to penetrate the mountain villages \u2013 Ponte Selva, Parre, Clusone and Rovetta \u2013 where they were looking for clues and leads. Some Italian journalists spoke of the \u201ccocciutaggine\u201d, or pig-headedness, of the Bergamo Alps \u2013 a caricature which only served to antagonise the already defensive locals. \u201cThe people here,\u201d says Bonicelli, the editor of Araberara, \u201cwere irritated by the stereotype of highlanders closed in on themselves. The word \u201comert\u00e0\u201d was even used, which implies [the silence of] Sicily and the mafia. It was deeply offensive.\u201dThere was incomprehension on both sides. The investigation was, by Italian standards, unusually secretive. Locals couldn\u2019t understand why police hunting the murderer of a 13-year-old girl were taking DNA samples of elderly women. Bonicelli \u2013 a fan of the fictional detectives Maigret and Montalbano \u2013 says that the investigation \u201cwas lacking the traditional, human element: the sort of person who goes into a bar in the village \u2026 and puts someone at ease so that something slips out.\u201d Locals felt there was something cold about this investigation, with its invasive demands for DNA samples. And it was changing the atmosphere in these small communities. People thought, says Bonicelli, \u201cthat the murderer was here, amongst us. So there was a sort of \u2013 not panic, but fear.\u201dInvestigators knew that from the early 1960s onwards, for two weeks every May, Giuseppe Guerinoni used to go to a spa resort called Salice Terme, south of Milan, without his wife. Throughout the spring of 2012, Ruggeri\u2019s team scoured records and registers, tracking all the women who had stayed in the resort at the same time of year as Guerinoni. They searched orphanages and homes for \u201cfallen women\u201d; they tested single mothers and women who had left the mountains for lower Bergamo. They came up empty-handed. The woman they were looking for, they realised, was probably neither single nor \u201cfallen\u201d, but hidden behind the walls of a marriage. Divorce was only legalised in Italy in 1970 \u2013 until that time many couples had stayed together despite infidelities.By the time Ruggeri was searching for Ignoto 1\u2019s mother, Yara\u2019s parents had hired their own expert, a freelance geneticist, in order to review the investigation and explain it to them. For almost a year Giorgio Portera lobbied for the exhumation of Giuseppe Guerinoni\u2019s body from the cemetery in Gorno. He was concerned that investigators has only been able to compare 13 Short Tandem Repeat (STR) regions, which are sequences of DNA, with the DNA of Ignoto 1. Confirmation of paternity demands that at least 15 STR regions be compared. So early on 7 March, 2013, workmen chiselled into Guerinoni\u2019s loculo, the horizontal slot in a cemetery wall where his coffin was kept, and removed his remains. They were transferred by carabinieri to the Papa Giovanni XXIII hospital in Bergamo for examination before being returned to Gorno just a few hours later. A couple of camera crews, and a few bewildered villagers, watched. When DNA was extracted from his remains, 29 STR regions could be compared. It was now absolutely certain that Guerinoni was the father of Ignoto 1.As the investigation dragged on through 2013, the public slowly became aware of why a woman was being sought. It became common knowledge that the late Giuseppe Guerinoni had had a lover, and that she was thought to be the mother of the murderer. \u201cWe have rediscovered,\u201d wrote one journalist, \u201cthat accursed desire for gossip which spices up small-town life. Now, here, everyone wants to know whose son so-and-so is.\u201dLong-forgotten infidelities and old suspicions surfaced. Bonicelli laughs as he describes how his journalists discovered five illegitimate children in two small villages: \u201cFive! We could have started a gossip magazine. It was like an open sewer: we were receiving anonymous letters, stories, people telling us about backgrounds and cuckolds.\u201d A society which had always prided itself on its sense of loyalty and traditional Catholicism, suddenly discovered the betrayals in its midst. \u201cPerhaps the point is this,\u201d Bonicelli wrote in an editorial, \u201cwe don\u2019t know each other any more.\u201dUntil this point, the investigation had been characterised by cutting-edge, scientific analysis, but it was an old-fashioned detective who broke the case open. Marshall Giovanni Mocerino was Ruggeri\u2019s right-hand man, working in the office next to hers. His desk is covered in hundreds of scraps of paper, scrawled with names and numbers in different coloured inks. Mocerino has bushy grey hair and black-rimmed glasses and speaks in a light-hearted, informal manner. But he\u2019s also, by his own admission, a capotosta, a stubborn man: \u201cI get fucked off when I can\u2019t solve a case,\u201d he told me. Because of this case, he said, \u201cI haven\u2019t had a holiday for four years.\u201dAlthough Mocerino was born in the south, near Naples, he had lived in the Bergamo Alps area since 1983 and he had come to know the region well. He was always talking with local people, and \u201csensitised\u201d, as he said, thousands to the case. He reminded them that, amid all the gossip about infidelities that had been sparked off by the hunt for Guerinoni\u2019s lover, a young girl had been killed. By 2013, he knew everything about Guerinoni\u2019s life: born in Gorno, Guerinoni had moved in the mid-1960s to Ponte Selva, a nearby settlement which had grown up around the bridge over the Serio river. He drove a public bus for the Motallini (later SAB) bus company. In the 1960s and 70s he would have driven plenty of young women to and from jobs in the various textile factories.Mocerino questioned Guerinoni\u2019s fellow bus drivers, one of whom had already gone to the press in March 2013 saying that Guerinoni had confessed to having got a young woman \u201cin trouble\u201d. Another former colleague described Guerinoni as a \u201cman\u201d with a \u201ccapital M\u201d, implying that he was a womaniser. But it wasn\u2019t until June 2014, that one of Mocerino\u2019s sources finally gave him the name he was looking for. Mocerino has always protected his sources, and refuses to confirm who first whispered the name of the mystery woman to him but however it came about, investigators had the final piece of the jigsaw: Ester Arzuffi.Arzuffi had been a neighbour of Guerinoni\u2019s in Ponte Selva in the late 1960s. In 1966, aged 19, she had married Gianni Bossetti from Parre, a nearby village. Bossetti was a man whose tough life had turned him inwards: he had been orphaned young and suffered from psoriasis, arthrosis and depression. Arzuffi seemed very different: an outgoing, good-looking woman, she wore short skirts and dyed her hair. She got a job at the textile factory a few miles away in Villa d\u2019Ogna, and took the bus every day.Ruggeri\u2019s team immediately cross-checked the DNA samples they had, and discovered that Arzuffi had already been tested in July 2012. They double-checked, and realised that a basic error had been made by a geneticist in Rome \u2013 Arzuffi\u2019s DNA had been compared not to Ignoto 1\u2019s, but to Yara\u2019s. Now investigators hurriedly reran the test and discovered that Arzuffi was, indeed, the woman they had spent so long looking for. She was the mother of Ignoto 1.Arzuffi had left Ponte Selva in 1970, but she had continued her affair with Guerinoni, and in the autumn of 1970 she gave birth to twins \u2013 a boy and a girl. The boy was called Massimo Bossetti (his middle name was Giuseppe, like his biological father). A slim boy who loved to party, he was nicknamed \u201cthe animal\u201d by his friends. He was now 42, a builder, married with three children and living in Mapello, the hamlet near Yara\u2019s hometown where the last signal from Yara\u2019s cell phone had been recorded on 26 November 2010. He was short, with piercing blue eyes, and had a peroxided, pencil goatee.Ruggeri moved fast. On 15 June 2014, she set up a fake roadblock breathalysing drivers. When her police officers stopped Massimo Bossetti, they pretended the machine hadn\u2019t worked the first time, so they could get two good samples. His DNA was immediately sent for overnight tests and results showed it was an exact match with Ignoto 1. One geneticist told me that the chance of a random match between Ignoto 1 and Massimo Bossetti was 2 x 10-27.Ruggeri wanted to observe Bossetti before arresting him, to study his movements and behaviour from a distance, but she was also worried that the news would get out and that he might leave town. On 16 June, Bossetti was arrested and charged with the murder of Yara Gambirasio. The Italian home secretary himself released a statement announcing his arrest. Reaction in the mountains of Bergamo, centre of the investigation, was relief: the murder suspect was from lower Bergamo.The suspect's internet history\u2028 was troubling, using search \u2028words which implied a compulsion \u2028for pubescent young girlsInvestigators discovered plenty of circumstantial evidence. Bossetti had frequently hung around Yara\u2019s house; he parked his car in Via Don Sala, behind the gym, and ate at the Toscanaccia pizzeria at the end of her road. He had gone for regular UV showers at a tanning shop nearby. His internet searches were troubling, using search words which implied a compulsion for pubescent young girls. More pertinently, records suggested that his phone had been present in Brembate di Sopra on the evening of Yara\u2019s disappearance, but had been switched off from 5.45pm until the following morning at 7.34am. For Ruggeri, the arrest was the reward for almost four years of dogged investigative work. After enduring a barrage of criticism for alleged incompetence, she was now feted for her brilliance.The case is likely to come to trial this spring. Bossetti maintains his innocence, and his lawyers are planning to contest the DNA evidence, claiming that DNA merely indicates \u201cpresence, not responsibility\u201d. Meanwhile, three families are dealing with the devastation of the case. Guerinoni\u2019s widow has been forced, in the autumn of her life, to come to terms with her husband\u2019s infidelity and the existence of his other children. Meanwhile, just as he was diagnosed with terminal cancer, Giovanni Bossetti became the nation\u2019s most famous cuckold, learning at the same time as the rest of the country that none of his three children are his (leaks from the investigation revealed that Ester Arzuffi\u2019s third child, Fabio, also had a different father). The marriage of the accused, Massimo Bossetti, has also come under strain: since his defence sought to portray him as a family man, two people have come forward to claim that they had affairs with his wife. Such is the local loathing for Bossetti that since his arrest, his twin sister \u2013 herself coming to terms with both her brother\u2019s fate and the fact that the man she thought was her father is not biologically related to her \u2013 has twice been beaten up. Her mother, Ester Arzuffi, still denies that she\u2019s ever been unfaithful to her husband.The Gambirasio family, meanwhile, has remained private. Recently, awarding a gymnastics trophy named after her daughter, Maura Gambirasio struggled to smile and made no public comments. She\u2019s cut her hair short and looks gaunt. Yara is buried between her two grandparents in a cemetery just across the road from her gym. There\u2019s no date on her tombstone, only a signature next to a photograph of her wearing a white alice band. All around the grave are mementoes left by her friends: gym shoes, a metal tulip, rag dolls, plastic angels and little bracelets. Often, in the early evening, you see Yara\u2019s father, Fulvio, standing here, gazing at the resting place of his parents and his daughter.Tobias Jones\u2019s A Place of Refuge will be published by Quercus in May Follow the Long Read on Twitter: @gdnlongread\u2022 This article was amended on 13 January 2015 to clarify that a DNA sample came from Yara Gambirasio\u2019s phone battery.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Crime"], "title": "The murder that obsessed Italy | Tobias Jones"},{"date": "2015-03-11T16:35:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Lovingly crushing four halves of garlic cloves on the bottom of the pan, Roberto turns to me saying: \u201cyou need to put passion into it\u201d. Once the white triangles are glazed in a film of Tuscan oil, he places the pan on the stove. \u201cIn cooking you need to take your time,\u201d he continues, opening a plastic container to let me taste the previously stewed spinach we bought in what used to be Lucca\u2019s bovine market, or Foro Boario, now a weekly farmers\u2019 market.Since the central market within the city walls is undergoing restoration and, no doubt, gentrification, this establishment is growing in popularity. Unlike the farmers\u2019 markets I\u2019m accustomed to in London, here all vegetables are exclusively local and seasonal. Eyeing what seemed like a cross between a carrot and a parsnip, we are told the vegetable\u2019s name is \u201cpriest\u2019s beard\u201d on account of its green shoots. The stallholder assured us they are sweet and can be grated and cooked in tomato sauce to make a pleasant dip. Roberto buys a bunch, musing on its culinary possibilities.After adding a few drops of tomato concentrate, I\u2019m invited to sniff the oil impregnated with garlic. Now the spinach is carefully ladled out in the pan and is used as a contorno for slices of turkey that have been marinated in oil, garlic, lemon juice and rosemary. Herbs are the most distinguishing feature of Italian regional cuisine and rosemary, sage, thyme, marjoram and nipitella (a kind of wild mint) are typically Tuscan. Roberto\u2019s cuisine reverberates with Etruscan ancestry: wild boar, pork and game accompanied by cavolo nero, mushrooms, pulses and spelt.As I leaf through a cookbook unlocking its tasty secrets, the author reminds us that the Maremma region is sweet and the inhabitants \u2018\u201cincredibly hospitable\u201d. In comparison, Lucca\u2019s mentality is walled and closed \u2013 something of an anathema to Roberto\u2019s more open-minded Maremman roots.What are we eating tomorrow? Orecchiette alle cime di rapa. Admittedly, orecchiette are Puglian and the dish closely resembles the Sicilian pasta du malu tempu made with broccoli, raisins and anchovies. If this name is anything to go by, the following day\u2019s downpour gastronomically reflects the bad weather accompaniment to our lunch.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Italy", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Italy: Cuisine, infused with garlic, herbs and admiration"},{"date": "2015-03-10T17:05:31Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A plan to to challenge young children\u2019s ideas about gender through play at schools in northern Italy \u2013 including with a memory game that contains images of male homemakers and female plumbers \u2013 has created a storm of protest, with some politicians saying the effort will confuse children about their sexual identity.The programme \u2013 titled Game of Respect \u2013 is aimed at children aged three to six in 45 schools in the Trieste region and involves educating teachers about how to use games and role-playing to teach gender equality.Part of the kit given to teachers is Memory, the classic matching game, which includes images of male teachers, female chefs, female firefighters and a man pushing a pram.Another game uses images of an elephant \u2013 on a skateboard, with a briefcase, with children, cooking \u2013 to promote questions and dialogue with children about whether they believe it is a male or female elephant that is engaged in the activity. The programme urges teachers to observe the use of certain colours in the classroom that are traditionally geared in a gender-specific way, and how many toys are used \u2013 such as strollers and cosmetics \u2013 that also adhere to gender stereotypes.\u201cVery often boys think about typical boy jobs while girls think about other typical work or aptitudes, so this play is aimed at making them understand that, if you are a man, you can use an iron at home, and if you are a woman, you can be an aeroplane pilot,\u201d says Antonella Grim, an education official on the city council in Trieste, who supports the programme.\u201cIt is not about sexual attitudes. It is about roles in society and stereotypes,\u201d she said. Grim said the programme had not yet been rolled out. Instead, teachers in select schools were attending voluntary training sessions to become versed in the games. Next, the plan will be presented to parents.The most serious obstacles to the programme may be political, however, with officials from the rightwing Northern League party and Forza Italia, Silvio Berlusconi\u2019s conservative party, voicing strong objections. According to reports, plans for children to play dressup in costumes that defy gender stereotypes have caused the most uproar.Barbara Zilli, the regional director of the Northern League, called for the immediate suspension of the programme, saying in a statement that it was \u201clikely to create confusion with respect to the sexual identity of children\u201d and that it was an \u201cunderhanded attempt to manipulate the psyche\u201d of young children with \u201cdeliberately ambiguous\u201d messages.\u201cIt is legitimate and understandable that schools be taught not to discriminate against gays and other minorities, but this does not necessarily entail the imposition of a model of society that provides for the elimination of the natural differences between the sexes,\u201d she said.Sandra Savino, of Forza Italia, said the plan had no \u201cpedagogical function\u201d and that the correct place to examine gender differences was within the family.But not all local politicians oppose the programme. Some members of the Democratic party and the anti-establishment Five Star Movement have expressed their support.\u201cObjections to the programme come from fundamentalist Catholic preconceptions that increase intolerance without considering the educational needs of children and the need to give them instruments to serenely face diversity,\u201d a Five Star Movement spokesman told Il Piccolo, a Trieste newspaper.\u201cThe gender gap is one of the major problems of our country, due to lack of development of the whole society: to overcome it we must remove the structural causes,\u201d said Fabiana Martini, the deputy mayor in Trieste. \u201cThese reactions show that there is still much work to be done and that there really is need for the Game of Respect.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Gender", "Sexuality", "World news", "Europe", "Equality", "Education", "Society"], "title": "School plan to change gender stereotypes causes storm in Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-05T10:17:34Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Turin may look a bit like Paris, but culturally, for me, it\u2019s more like Detroit. They have a lot in common. In the 1960s Detroit was one of the richest cities in the world and that was a golden age for Turin too; they were both huge in the motor industry, and now have an edgy, creative, entrepreneurial pulse.When the Fiat factory drastically reduced its production, the city had to find a new way to survive \u2013 and our cultural and entrepreneurial side grew. Hosting the 2006 Winter Olympics was fantastic. Before that we were thought of as a grey, industrial city, but we became better-known globally, and more confident, too.Music is massive here: it\u2019s Italy\u2019s capital of electronic music. The Kappa FuturFestival in July takes place in the amazing Parco Dora, one of Europe\u2019s most futuristic parks, created in what was an industrial wasteland. Then there\u2019s the Movement festival in the winter in Lingotto, a former Fiat car factory. There\u2019s a big underground scene, with so many producers and DJs that\u2019s it\u2019s easy to have a lot of fun.You\u2019ll get the best DJs, the best music, but not the best service here! Turin isn\u2019t known for fashionable bars, like Milan \u2013 the nightlife is more rough and basic. Go to Mad Dog in the city centre for quality cocktails. It\u2019s got that speakeasy vibe. One of my favourite clubs is Loud, which is about a year old now and plays techno every Saturday.Banco Vini e Alimenti has the best biodynamic wine menu in Italy. Whenever friends come to Turin, I take them there for dinner. Lo Spaccio Alimentare is great for traditional food like vitello tonnato \u2013 veal served cold with a tuna sauce. Turin is a culinary destination, the food\u2019s amazing \u2013 you must try our chocolate!Turin is one of the most affordable cities in Italy and has a huge student population. There are two big institutions: the uni and the polytechnic, with about 100,000 students and staff. More and more students are coming here because it\u2019s cheap and offers a good lifestyle, a bit like Berlin. There\u2019s no end of cheap bars and places to eat. On every corner there\u2019s a new pizza place, a new ice-cream shop \u2026Via Verdi in the city centre is one of my favourite streets. It\u2019s very narrow, with no cars. You start at Castle Square and follow it to the river. You\u2019ll pass the royal theatre, the royal stables, the university dating from 1700, the national cinema museum, the first radio building \u2026 so much history! We were the first capital of Italy \u2013 you can visit the Palace of Venaria outside town. It\u2019s our Versailles.The family-run Art Hotel Boston is particularly lovely. Roberto, the owner, is a collector, so the whole place is full of contemporary art, and each room is different.Turin has many old, traditional cafes where poets and intellectuals used to hang out at the beginning of the last century. I love Caff\u00e8 Mulassano, which recently turned 110 \u2013 it\u2019s very decorative, all dark wood, leather and gold. It\u2019s known as the inventor of the tramezzino, a square cut sandwich \u2013 there are about 30 varieties and they\u2019re delicious.The best view of the city is from Superga Basilica, site of the Grande Torino football club plane crash in 1949. You can see the Alps from there. We\u2019re close to the mountains and the sea, a perfect location \u2013 you can ski or be on the beach in about an hour.\u2022 Maurizio Vitale is the founder of Movement Entertainment and Kappa FuturFestival (11-12 July, day tickets from \u20ac40)", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Music mogul Maurizio Vitale's Turin highlights"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-05T10:17:34Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Turin may look a bit like Paris, but culturally, for me, it\u2019s more like Detroit. They have a lot in common. In the 1960s Detroit was one of the richest cities in the world and that was a golden age for Turin too; they were both huge in the motor industry, and now have an edgy, creative, entrepreneurial pulse.When the Fiat factory drastically reduced its production, the city had to find a new way to survive \u2013 and our cultural and entrepreneurial side grew. Hosting the 2006 Winter Olympics was fantastic. Before that we were thought of as a grey, industrial city, but we became better-known globally, and more confident, too.Music is massive here: it\u2019s Italy\u2019s capital of electronic music. The Kappa FuturFestival in July takes place in the amazing Parco Dora, one of Europe\u2019s most futuristic parks, created in what was an industrial wasteland. Then there\u2019s the Movement festival in the winter in Lingotto, a former Fiat car factory. There\u2019s a big underground scene, with so many producers and DJs that\u2019s it\u2019s easy to have a lot of fun.You\u2019ll get the best DJs, the best music, but not the best service here! Turin isn\u2019t known for fashionable bars, like Milan \u2013 the nightlife is more rough and basic. Go to Mad Dog in the city centre for quality cocktails. It\u2019s got that speakeasy vibe. One of my favourite clubs is Loud, which is about a year old now and plays techno every Saturday.Banco Vini e Alimenti has the best biodynamic wine menu in Italy. Whenever friends come to Turin, I take them there for dinner. Lo Spaccio Alimentare is great for traditional food like vitello tonnato \u2013 veal served cold with a tuna sauce. Turin is a culinary destination, the food\u2019s amazing \u2013 you must try our chocolate!Turin is one of the most affordable cities in Italy and has a huge student population. There are two big institutions: the uni and the polytechnic, with about 100,000 students and staff. More and more students are coming here because it\u2019s cheap and offers a good lifestyle, a bit like Berlin. There\u2019s no end of cheap bars and places to eat. On every corner there\u2019s a new pizza place, a new ice-cream shop \u2026Via Verdi in the city centre is one of my favourite streets. It\u2019s very narrow, with no cars. You start at Castle Square and follow it to the river. You\u2019ll pass the royal theatre, the royal stables, the university dating from 1700, the national cinema museum, the first radio building \u2026 so much history! We were the first capital of Italy \u2013 you can visit the Palace of Venaria outside town. It\u2019s our Versailles.The family-run Art Hotel Boston is particularly lovely. Roberto, the owner, is a collector, so the whole place is full of contemporary art, and each room is different.Turin has many old, traditional cafes where poets and intellectuals used to hang out at the beginning of the last century. I love Caff\u00e8 Mulassano, which recently turned 110 \u2013 it\u2019s very decorative, all dark wood, leather and gold. It\u2019s known as the inventor of the tramezzino, a square cut sandwich \u2013 there are about 30 varieties and they\u2019re delicious.The best view of the city is from Superga Basilica, site of the Grande Torino football club plane crash in 1949. You can see the Alps from there. We\u2019re close to the mountains and the sea, a perfect location \u2013 you can ski or be on the beach in about an hour.\u2022 Maurizio Vitale is the founder of Movement Entertainment and Kappa FuturFestival (11-12 July, day tickets from \u20ac40)", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Music mogul Maurizio Vitale's Turin highlights"},{"date": "2015-05-26T17:38:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A judge in Milan has shut the door on Uber\u2019s ride-sharing business in Italy, dealing a major blow to the $41bn (\u00a326.6bn) US company\u2019s ambitions in Europe.Tuesday\u2019s ruling that Uber\u2019s Pop service creates \u201cunfair competition\u201d effectively holds the private company to the same standard as a public taxi service. UberPop, similar to UberX in the UK, allows users of the Uber smartphone app to order a ride from a driver without a commercial licence. By contrast Italian taxi drivers are highly regulated with severe limits on availability of taxi licences. That fact, the court ruled, made UberPop illegal, just like any other taxi company operating without a licence. Uber has argued that it is essentially a technology company and differs from a traditional taxi service because it limits its availability to users of its app, and does not pick passengers up off the street.UberBlack, which uses drivers with professional licences who have been vetted by the company, will continue to be available in Milan and Rome.  Related: 'Uber protest' by black cab drivers brings traffic chaos to Westminster The news further complicated Uber\u2019s plans to expand in Europe, where Uber\u2019s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said earlier this year that he would create 50,000 new jobs by forging \u201cnew partnerships\u201d in major European cities.Since then, Uber has faced more road blocks than green lights. It is the subject of a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and an injunction against it in Geneva. Its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain have also been banned.The company is also facing trouble closer to home. US authorities are examining why some British users of its taxi-booking app were allegedly charged for rides they did not book or make. Uber said it had seen no evidence of a security breach.Compared to its legal woes in other European cities, Uber had been operating in Italy without the restrictions that it has faced elsewhere. But the company now has weeks to cease operating its Pop service or risk heavy fines.\u201cWe are obviously very disappointed by today\u2019s decision on UberPop, a decision that we respect but that we do not understand,\u201d said Zac de Kievit, the legal director of Uber Europe, adding that he was most concerned about drivers who were suddenly facing unemployment.De Kievit said Uber would appeal against the decision and pointed out that the European commission had said that member states ought to ensure \u201cfairness, proportionality, and no discrimination\u201d in the regulation of new technologies.Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maff\u00e8, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan, where Uber is based, said the judge\u2019s ruling was \u201cembarrassing\u201d and \u201centirely ideological\u201d.\u201cIt is a very bad sign of the limitation of innovation [in Italy],\u201d he said. \u201cThis is the first case that I know of where a single judge \u2013 one person \u2013 can decide to stop a service at a national level on the basis of an [unsubstantiated] economic and theoretical argument.\u201d", "tags": ["Uber", "Italy", "Apps", "Technology", "Road transport"], "title": "Uber ordered to discontinue Pop service in Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-05T10:17:34Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Turin may look a bit like Paris, but culturally, for me, it\u2019s more like Detroit. They have a lot in common. In the 1960s Detroit was one of the richest cities in the world and that was a golden age for Turin too; they were both huge in the motor industry, and now have an edgy, creative, entrepreneurial pulse.When the Fiat factory drastically reduced its production, the city had to find a new way to survive \u2013 and our cultural and entrepreneurial side grew. Hosting the 2006 Winter Olympics was fantastic. Before that we were thought of as a grey, industrial city, but we became better-known globally, and more confident, too.Music is massive here: it\u2019s Italy\u2019s capital of electronic music. The Kappa FuturFestival in July takes place in the amazing Parco Dora, one of Europe\u2019s most futuristic parks, created in what was an industrial wasteland. Then there\u2019s the Movement festival in the winter in Lingotto, a former Fiat car factory. There\u2019s a big underground scene, with so many producers and DJs that\u2019s it\u2019s easy to have a lot of fun.You\u2019ll get the best DJs, the best music, but not the best service here! Turin isn\u2019t known for fashionable bars, like Milan \u2013 the nightlife is more rough and basic. Go to Mad Dog in the city centre for quality cocktails. It\u2019s got that speakeasy vibe. One of my favourite clubs is Loud, which is about a year old now and plays techno every Saturday.Banco Vini e Alimenti has the best biodynamic wine menu in Italy. Whenever friends come to Turin, I take them there for dinner. Lo Spaccio Alimentare is great for traditional food like vitello tonnato \u2013 veal served cold with a tuna sauce. Turin is a culinary destination, the food\u2019s amazing \u2013 you must try our chocolate!Turin is one of the most affordable cities in Italy and has a huge student population. There are two big institutions: the uni and the polytechnic, with about 100,000 students and staff. More and more students are coming here because it\u2019s cheap and offers a good lifestyle, a bit like Berlin. There\u2019s no end of cheap bars and places to eat. On every corner there\u2019s a new pizza place, a new ice-cream shop \u2026Via Verdi in the city centre is one of my favourite streets. It\u2019s very narrow, with no cars. You start at Castle Square and follow it to the river. You\u2019ll pass the royal theatre, the royal stables, the university dating from 1700, the national cinema museum, the first radio building \u2026 so much history! We were the first capital of Italy \u2013 you can visit the Palace of Venaria outside town. It\u2019s our Versailles.The family-run Art Hotel Boston is particularly lovely. Roberto, the owner, is a collector, so the whole place is full of contemporary art, and each room is different.Turin has many old, traditional cafes where poets and intellectuals used to hang out at the beginning of the last century. I love Caff\u00e8 Mulassano, which recently turned 110 \u2013 it\u2019s very decorative, all dark wood, leather and gold. It\u2019s known as the inventor of the tramezzino, a square cut sandwich \u2013 there are about 30 varieties and they\u2019re delicious.The best view of the city is from Superga Basilica, site of the Grande Torino football club plane crash in 1949. You can see the Alps from there. We\u2019re close to the mountains and the sea, a perfect location \u2013 you can ski or be on the beach in about an hour.\u2022 Maurizio Vitale is the founder of Movement Entertainment and Kappa FuturFestival (11-12 July, day tickets from \u20ac40)", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Music mogul Maurizio Vitale's Turin highlights"},{"date": "2015-05-26T17:38:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A judge in Milan has shut the door on Uber\u2019s ride-sharing business in Italy, dealing a major blow to the $41bn (\u00a326.6bn) US company\u2019s ambitions in Europe.Tuesday\u2019s ruling that Uber\u2019s Pop service creates \u201cunfair competition\u201d effectively holds the private company to the same standard as a public taxi service. UberPop, similar to UberX in the UK, allows users of the Uber smartphone app to order a ride from a driver without a commercial licence. By contrast Italian taxi drivers are highly regulated with severe limits on availability of taxi licences. That fact, the court ruled, made UberPop illegal, just like any other taxi company operating without a licence. Uber has argued that it is essentially a technology company and differs from a traditional taxi service because it limits its availability to users of its app, and does not pick passengers up off the street.UberBlack, which uses drivers with professional licences who have been vetted by the company, will continue to be available in Milan and Rome.  Related: 'Uber protest' by black cab drivers brings traffic chaos to Westminster The news further complicated Uber\u2019s plans to expand in Europe, where Uber\u2019s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said earlier this year that he would create 50,000 new jobs by forging \u201cnew partnerships\u201d in major European cities.Since then, Uber has faced more road blocks than green lights. It is the subject of a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and an injunction against it in Geneva. Its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain have also been banned.The company is also facing trouble closer to home. US authorities are examining why some British users of its taxi-booking app were allegedly charged for rides they did not book or make. Uber said it had seen no evidence of a security breach.Compared to its legal woes in other European cities, Uber had been operating in Italy without the restrictions that it has faced elsewhere. But the company now has weeks to cease operating its Pop service or risk heavy fines.\u201cWe are obviously very disappointed by today\u2019s decision on UberPop, a decision that we respect but that we do not understand,\u201d said Zac de Kievit, the legal director of Uber Europe, adding that he was most concerned about drivers who were suddenly facing unemployment.De Kievit said Uber would appeal against the decision and pointed out that the European commission had said that member states ought to ensure \u201cfairness, proportionality, and no discrimination\u201d in the regulation of new technologies.Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maff\u00e8, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan, where Uber is based, said the judge\u2019s ruling was \u201cembarrassing\u201d and \u201centirely ideological\u201d.\u201cIt is a very bad sign of the limitation of innovation [in Italy],\u201d he said. \u201cThis is the first case that I know of where a single judge \u2013 one person \u2013 can decide to stop a service at a national level on the basis of an [unsubstantiated] economic and theoretical argument.\u201d", "tags": ["Uber", "Italy", "Apps", "Technology", "Road transport"], "title": "Uber ordered to discontinue Pop service in Italy"},{"date": "2015-05-20T09:18:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy\u2019s coastline can stun us with its views or draw us in with its romance \u2013 and we want to hear what makes it so special to you, from the beaches and cafes that line the harbours of your favourite fishing village to great little places to stay within reach of the sea. Send us a tip and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher. Contribute via GuardianWitness. The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you stay in over 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tips by clicking on the blue button and using the text tab. Try and include as much detail as possible (location, any website addresses, prices etc) and feel free to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 27 May 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-05T10:17:34Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Turin may look a bit like Paris, but culturally, for me, it\u2019s more like Detroit. They have a lot in common. In the 1960s Detroit was one of the richest cities in the world and that was a golden age for Turin too; they were both huge in the motor industry, and now have an edgy, creative, entrepreneurial pulse.When the Fiat factory drastically reduced its production, the city had to find a new way to survive \u2013 and our cultural and entrepreneurial side grew. Hosting the 2006 Winter Olympics was fantastic. Before that we were thought of as a grey, industrial city, but we became better-known globally, and more confident, too.Music is massive here: it\u2019s Italy\u2019s capital of electronic music. The Kappa FuturFestival in July takes place in the amazing Parco Dora, one of Europe\u2019s most futuristic parks, created in what was an industrial wasteland. Then there\u2019s the Movement festival in the winter in Lingotto, a former Fiat car factory. There\u2019s a big underground scene, with so many producers and DJs that\u2019s it\u2019s easy to have a lot of fun.You\u2019ll get the best DJs, the best music, but not the best service here! Turin isn\u2019t known for fashionable bars, like Milan \u2013 the nightlife is more rough and basic. Go to Mad Dog in the city centre for quality cocktails. It\u2019s got that speakeasy vibe. One of my favourite clubs is Loud, which is about a year old now and plays techno every Saturday.Banco Vini e Alimenti has the best biodynamic wine menu in Italy. Whenever friends come to Turin, I take them there for dinner. Lo Spaccio Alimentare is great for traditional food like vitello tonnato \u2013 veal served cold with a tuna sauce. Turin is a culinary destination, the food\u2019s amazing \u2013 you must try our chocolate!Turin is one of the most affordable cities in Italy and has a huge student population. There are two big institutions: the uni and the polytechnic, with about 100,000 students and staff. More and more students are coming here because it\u2019s cheap and offers a good lifestyle, a bit like Berlin. There\u2019s no end of cheap bars and places to eat. On every corner there\u2019s a new pizza place, a new ice-cream shop \u2026Via Verdi in the city centre is one of my favourite streets. It\u2019s very narrow, with no cars. You start at Castle Square and follow it to the river. You\u2019ll pass the royal theatre, the royal stables, the university dating from 1700, the national cinema museum, the first radio building \u2026 so much history! We were the first capital of Italy \u2013 you can visit the Palace of Venaria outside town. It\u2019s our Versailles.The family-run Art Hotel Boston is particularly lovely. Roberto, the owner, is a collector, so the whole place is full of contemporary art, and each room is different.Turin has many old, traditional cafes where poets and intellectuals used to hang out at the beginning of the last century. I love Caff\u00e8 Mulassano, which recently turned 110 \u2013 it\u2019s very decorative, all dark wood, leather and gold. It\u2019s known as the inventor of the tramezzino, a square cut sandwich \u2013 there are about 30 varieties and they\u2019re delicious.The best view of the city is from Superga Basilica, site of the Grande Torino football club plane crash in 1949. You can see the Alps from there. We\u2019re close to the mountains and the sea, a perfect location \u2013 you can ski or be on the beach in about an hour.\u2022 Maurizio Vitale is the founder of Movement Entertainment and Kappa FuturFestival (11-12 July, day tickets from \u20ac40)", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Music mogul Maurizio Vitale's Turin highlights"},{"date": "2015-05-26T17:38:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A judge in Milan has shut the door on Uber\u2019s ride-sharing business in Italy, dealing a major blow to the $41bn (\u00a326.6bn) US company\u2019s ambitions in Europe.Tuesday\u2019s ruling that Uber\u2019s Pop service creates \u201cunfair competition\u201d effectively holds the private company to the same standard as a public taxi service. UberPop, similar to UberX in the UK, allows users of the Uber smartphone app to order a ride from a driver without a commercial licence. By contrast Italian taxi drivers are highly regulated with severe limits on availability of taxi licences. That fact, the court ruled, made UberPop illegal, just like any other taxi company operating without a licence. Uber has argued that it is essentially a technology company and differs from a traditional taxi service because it limits its availability to users of its app, and does not pick passengers up off the street.UberBlack, which uses drivers with professional licences who have been vetted by the company, will continue to be available in Milan and Rome.  Related: 'Uber protest' by black cab drivers brings traffic chaos to Westminster The news further complicated Uber\u2019s plans to expand in Europe, where Uber\u2019s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said earlier this year that he would create 50,000 new jobs by forging \u201cnew partnerships\u201d in major European cities.Since then, Uber has faced more road blocks than green lights. It is the subject of a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and an injunction against it in Geneva. Its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain have also been banned.The company is also facing trouble closer to home. US authorities are examining why some British users of its taxi-booking app were allegedly charged for rides they did not book or make. Uber said it had seen no evidence of a security breach.Compared to its legal woes in other European cities, Uber had been operating in Italy without the restrictions that it has faced elsewhere. But the company now has weeks to cease operating its Pop service or risk heavy fines.\u201cWe are obviously very disappointed by today\u2019s decision on UberPop, a decision that we respect but that we do not understand,\u201d said Zac de Kievit, the legal director of Uber Europe, adding that he was most concerned about drivers who were suddenly facing unemployment.De Kievit said Uber would appeal against the decision and pointed out that the European commission had said that member states ought to ensure \u201cfairness, proportionality, and no discrimination\u201d in the regulation of new technologies.Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maff\u00e8, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan, where Uber is based, said the judge\u2019s ruling was \u201cembarrassing\u201d and \u201centirely ideological\u201d.\u201cIt is a very bad sign of the limitation of innovation [in Italy],\u201d he said. \u201cThis is the first case that I know of where a single judge \u2013 one person \u2013 can decide to stop a service at a national level on the basis of an [unsubstantiated] economic and theoretical argument.\u201d", "tags": ["Uber", "Italy", "Apps", "Technology", "Road transport"], "title": "Uber ordered to discontinue Pop service in Italy"},{"date": "2015-05-20T09:18:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy\u2019s coastline can stun us with its views or draw us in with its romance \u2013 and we want to hear what makes it so special to you, from the beaches and cafes that line the harbours of your favourite fishing village to great little places to stay within reach of the sea. Send us a tip and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher. Contribute via GuardianWitness. The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you stay in over 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tips by clicking on the blue button and using the text tab. Try and include as much detail as possible (location, any website addresses, prices etc) and feel free to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 27 May 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-05-23T18:43:47Z", "country": "italy", "content": "British jihadis heading to Syria are increasingly choosing to travel south through Italy and across the Mediterranean to north Africa in order to evade detection to reach the forces of Islamic State. The route is in the opposite direction of the main migration channel north for the tens of thousands of people attempting to cross the Mediterranean from Libya before moving up through Italy, often starting in Sicily.Sources monitoring the movements of British jihadis say that to avoid security measures at UK airports Isis recruits are crossing the channel by ferry then heading to Italy from where they sail south to north Africa, frequently landing in Tunisia before crossing into Libya.Libya is viewed as a favourable destination for British Isis recruits bound for Syria as it is increasingly coming under the control of Isis. The troubled north African state is now the third biggest stronghold for the group and follows a week in which it has consolidated its grip on its self-declared caliphate in Syria and Iraq.Isis fighters in Libya recently took control of Sirte, the home town of Muammar Gaddafi, defeating forces loyal to the country\u2019s unofficial administration in Tripoli.\u201cWe are seeing more and more taking the route across the Mediterranean to Libya; it\u2019s becoming established. When they get there they are looked after. You can even follow some of them on Facebook going through Italy,\u201d said a source.Earlier this month, an adviser to the Libyan government alleged that Isis fighters were being smuggled into Europe by traffickers in the Mediterranean, claiming that militants were hiding on boats filled with migrants. Officials in Italy and Egypt have previously warned that Isis fighters could reach Europe via migrant boats, although experts caution that it is very difficult to verify or assess such claims.Closer to home, scrutiny remains on the number of secret messaging mobile phone apps that are reported to have been hijacked by terrorists who allegedly use them to persuade British children to join Isis. The apps, which allow anyone to send encrypted messages, can be downloaded free and can be opened only by a private key. Critics claim Isis recruiters are therefore able to share their plots in secret, but the apps\u2019 owners argue that private communications are a \u201chuman right\u201d for everyone.The Home Office say that such developments confirm that the police and security services are \u201closing capabilities\u201d to keep track of terrorists.Home secretary Theresa May said: \u201cRapid changes in technology, and particularly the increasing importance of internet communications, means that communications data is not always available when it is needed.\u201dConcerns that such statements indicate a threat to freedom of speech follow details of a plan by May to introduce counter-extremism powers to vet British broadcasters\u2019 programmes before they are transmitted.Cabinet colleague, Sajid Javid, the culture secretary, wrote to David Cameron to say that he was unable to support May\u2019s proposal to give Ofcom the new powers to take pre-emptive action against programmes that included \u201cextremist content\u201d.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "UK news", "Libya", "Syria", "Italy", "Internet", "Mobile phones"], "title": "British jihadis heading to join Isis switch routes via Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-08T15:54:03Z", "country": "italy", "content": "HSBC has launched an investigation into one of its senior executives in connection with a major corporate scandal centred on deals made by Italy\u2019s largest insurer, the Guardian has learned.Stuart Levey, HSBC\u2019s chief legal officer, is understood to have ordered the inquiry into the current chief executive of the banking group\u2019s Italian operations. The small group of lawyers involved in the investigation, which has not been disclosed publicly, is examining the conduct of Marzio Perrelli, a former Goldman Sachs banker who joined HSBC\u2019s Italian subsidiary in 2004 and became its CEO in 2008.The Guardian understands the investigation is connected to a corporate scandal widely reported in the Italian press, involving the private equity dealings of the Generali insurance group. Italian police are understood to have visited HSBC offices in connection with their broader enquiries into the affair.The revelation of HSBC\u2019s high-level internal investigation is the latest public embarrassment for Europe\u2019s largest bank, which is struggling to repair its reputation after a series of international scandals.Disclosure of HSBC\u2019s internal investigation comes amid renewed attention on HSBC\u2019s global presence which currently spans over 70 countries and as chief executive Stuart Gulliver outlines plans to simplify and withdraw from some of its operations worldwide. Gulliver will present his latest strategy on Tuesday, and also set out the methodology by which the bank will decide whether to pull its headquarters from London, where it relocated from Hong Kong in 1992. In December 2012 HSBC received one of the biggest fines in banking history, $1.9bn (\u00a31.2bn), in a deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice over facilitating money-laundering for Mexican drugs cartels. This was followed in February this year by the publication by an international consortium of news organisations \u2013 including the Guardian, BBC, Le Monde, Suddeutsche Zeitung and ICIJ \u2013 of evidence of HSBC\u2019s Swiss operation facilitating mass tax-avoidance and evasion. This has led to subsequent criminal probes in France, Belgium, Argentina and elsewhere.The bank has repeatedly and firmly stated that it has drastically reformed its management and compliance procedures since Stuart Gulliver took over as chief executive in 2011, and resisted claims it is \u201ctoo big to manage\u201d. In April the Guardian revealed HSBC is struggling to clean up parts of its worldwide operations after a senior executive told external lawyers that it is \u201ccast-iron certain\u201d it will face another major regulatory breach in the future, while last week it was reported the bank had launched an internal review over its alleged role in Fifa corruption.The Guardian contacted HSBC to give it an opportunity to comment on or amend the information that its chief lawyer was conducting an internal probe of the bank\u2019s Italian CEO in connection with Italy\u2019s criminal investigation of the Generali Group affair, and that HSBC executives had been summoned to give evidence to the internal panel. The bank declined to amend or challenge any of those specific points.\u201cWe have no comment on these allegations,\u201d a spokesman said in a statement.Last year, the Financial Times reported that Italian police raided HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan as part of an investigation into a complex financial deal involving the bank and Italy\u2019s largest insurance company, Generali.HSBC\u2019s spokesman refused to comment on whether the internal probe is related to the Italian police raid in February last year. HSBC\u2019s role in the unusual, multimillion-euro deal in 2007 \u2013 which involved Generali and a boutique private equity firm based in Vicenza \u2013 has been subject of reports in the Italian media in recent years. The deal is among a handful of investments made by Generali\u2019s former management which since 2013 have been scrutinised by both Italian authorities and the insurance company\u2019s new management. Writing in the Corriere della Sera newspaper in late 2012, the Italian senator and journalist Massimo Mucchetti wrote of the \u201cdark side of dealings\u201d between Generali and the private equity firm, called Palladio Finanziaria, whose CEO was sentenced last year over an unrelated bribery scandal. Mucchetti, along with others in the Italian press, reported that HSBC were involved in one of the deals now under scrutiny. It was reported earlier this year that Generali\u2019s former finance director faces an investigation by Italy\u2019s financial police, the Guardia di Finanza, over his alleged involvement in certain investment vehicles controlled by Generali. No individuals have been arrested or charged in connection with the investigation to date.Following the police raid on HSBC\u2019s offices in Milan last year, La Repubblica newspaper reported that Generali\u2019s new management had asked the bank for documents related to the 2007 deal between the bank and a Generali-controlled investment vehicle registered in the Bahamas. HSBC refused to hand over the documents, according to the report.The Guardian contacted Generali Group about the police investigation and allegations made in UK and Italian press. A spokesman for the group said \u201cwe have no comment to make\u201d. HSBC began operating in Milan in 1995. The subsidiary focuses on corporate finance and investment banking, serving \u201ctop-tier\u201d customers rather than offering retail high street banking. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Banking", "Business", "Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "HSBC launches internal investigation into Italy chief"},{"date": "2015-05-28T05:00:09Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Perched above the sea in north-west Sicily is the village of Scopello, little more than a few pretty lanes with abundant charm and a sparkling cove below, complete with rock stacks and invitingly clear water. The atmospheric old Tonnara (tuna fishery) adds character, and Scopello is a perfect base for spirit-lifting hikes through the nearby Zingaro coastal reserve: paths rise through untouched hills with wildflowers before dipping to pristine beaches otherwise only reachable by boat.riservazingaro.itmarthah This is a stretch of soft, sandy coast between Naples and Rome, backed by hills and with amazing sunsets from the beaches. Take a train from Naples or Rome to Fondi, from where it is a 15-minute bus ride to Sperlonga. Explore the sleepy streets of the old town, stroll down to the Grotto of Tiberius (a haunting, watery cave), try an ice-cream from a local gelateria and admire the view of Monte Circeo from the promenade. goncaSidestep the beachfront tourist traps and head uphill to Gastronomia San Martino. It\u2019s worth turning up early and getting a bottle of local wine while you wait for your excellent food, with adventurous twists on pasta and seafood served on paper plates, as there are only a few seats. For a quieter beach follow the road round the coast (to the left as you exit the train station) and through the tunnel.  Via San Martino 3, +39 346 186 0764  ID7685441  The 5km stretch of sand and shingle beach from Pineto in the Teramo province of Abruzzo to Torre del Cerrano is a welcome escape from the crowds to be found packing the resorts of the Adriatic coastline. The area around the tower is a protected marine reserve and the pine woods that run parallel to the beach provide wonderful shelter from the sun. For a few weeks in summer, classical concerts are held in the tower\u2019s landscaped gardens at sunrise: an unforgettable experience.torredelcerrano.it La Grande Quercia Not many tourists know Rome has beaches just half an hour from the city centre \u2013 a welcome relief from sightseeing. The soft sand and warm waters of Lido d\u2019Ostia can be easily reached by taking Metro line B to Piramide, then a little local train to Lido Ostia or Ostia Antica (included in the daily travelcard for less than \u20ac10). Go in spring or autumn and you\u2019ll almost have the place to yourself. funinfinland   Over an hour\u2019s drive south of Salerno, running from Agropoli to Scario, the Cilento is blissfully difficult to get to. On the \u201cshin\u201d of Italy, in the country\u2019s second-largest Italian national park, the Cilento is a Unesco world heritage site thanks partly to the preservation of ancient Roman footpaths. The coast of the Cilento is largely undeveloped and sometimes extremely rugged. The sea wins prizes for cleanliness and the wildest stretches are only accessible by boat. It is along these most secluded cliffs I found my favourite olive groves, overlooking the Mediterranean far below. cilentoediano.it dom100  Quaint towns such as Numana and Sirolo cling to the hillside, and the expansive beach at Mezzavalle di Portonovo is well worth the 15-minute trek when visiting the beautiful Conero peninsula. Last year we discovered a path to the rocks where fishermen\u2019s caves are hewn into the cliff \u2013 most are abandoned but some have been reclaimed by boating aficionados. Scramble along the shore, chat with the locals and watch them dive from the rocks into the crystal-clear pools. Ian Richards  On a calm day you can hire a boat with an outboard motor from outside Marina Piccola in Sorrento. I found it really simple to drive but if you\u2019re nervous you can hire a skipper. Head south until you see Capri, where you can dock and go on land, but sailing around Capri and Anacapri is a joy in itself. From there, head east towards Positano. There\u2019s no better way to arrive.  marinapiccola73.com WateryEyes  The best way to travel from the north to Puglia (at the \u201cheel\u201d of Italy) is down the east coast by train. The track runs parallel to the coast for a whole six hours of incredible scenery. Start at Rimini or Ancona, grab a seat facing forwards and take a picnic of prosecco, prosciutto and other snacks for the trip! Virginia Stuart-Taylor   The Rifugio degli Dei (Refuge of the Gods) apartments on cliffs above the Amalfi Coast offers exceptional views of Positano and its bay. Around 280 steps lead to the apartments, so it\u2019s not for the faint-hearted, but the rewards at the top are worth it. The family who run the business are warm and welcoming and breakfast includes homemade cakes, fresh fruit from the garden and coffee. For the brave, a further 1,000 steps take you up to the Cammino degli Dei (Path of the Gods), a cliffside walk with views across the coast that should have a place on any walker\u2019s list. There is a beach just over the road with an outdoor bar that serves some of the best fresh fish in town. From \u20ac40pp pn or \u20ac240 per week, Via Arienzo, 43-84017, Positano, (+39) 339 8390809, rifugiodeglidei.itID8078709 Otranto is one of those little fortified towns that just makes you go \u201cwhoa!\u201d and reach for the camera constantly. Walk around the charming historic centre, enjoy the views of the harbour and the sandy beach from the walls and let the waters of the Adriatic hypnotise you. Go for fish of the day or pasta with shellfish or sea urchin, but try to avoid the slightly overpriced restaurants on the promenade. canaria The pretty, pastel-coloured, clifftop villages on the Cinque Terre are best viewed from the sea. Park at La Spezia, take the train to Riomaggiore and hop on the little coastal boat towards Monterosso. It stops at Manarola, Corniglia and Vernazza, where you can to enjoy fresh seafood and crisp white wine at the Trattoria da Sandro. Climb to the start of the Blue Path (sentiero azzurro) to savour the iconic panoramic view of the town and harbour before continuing the two-mile hike westward. Cool down with a gelato on Monterosso\u2019s crescent-shaped sandy beach, before returning to La Spezia by train.incinqueterre.com, cinqueterreriviera.comCaroleTidball", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Amalfi coast holidays", "Europe holidays", "Sicily holidays", "Rome holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips"},{"date": "2015-04-01T10:45:43Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy may seem like the most European of countries. Its capital was that of an empire that encompassed all but the remotest corners of the continent. Italy gave us the Renaissance and the foundations of modern western culture. Rome was the city chosen for the signing of the European Union\u2019s founding treaty. A lot of outsiders \u2013 content to visit its museums, to holiday in placid Umbria and cultured Tuscany \u2013 are happy to leave it at that. Yet there are parts of Italy and aspects of its society that are as exotic and unfamiliar as if they came from the Middle or Far East. Where else in Europe do you find an organised crime syndicate like the \u2018ndrangheta, which uses rites that are grotesque parodies of Roman Catholic liturgy? Or a town such as Matera where, until the 1950s, much of the population lived in caves? Or a dish like pajata, made from the only partially cleaned intestines of milk-fed calves? Where but in Italy could an entire sentence-worth of meaning be conveyed with a single hand gesture? It is eternally deceptive; a country in which much is said by means of symbols, or simply left unsaid. So, with the possible exception of the last, the books that follow are ones that scratch at the reassuring surface of Italian life to get at the infinitely more fascinating reality below. None more purposefully than \u20261. The Italians by Luigi BarziniStill in print 50 years after publication, outdated in parts, yet full of insights into the Italian psyche, which are as apt today as they were in 1964: \u201cDull and insignificant moments in life must be made decorous and agreeable with suitable decorations and rituals. Ugly things must be hidden, unpleasant and tragic facts swept under the carpet whenever possible.\u201d Or, more sardonically and pertinently in the context of Italy\u2019s current economic plight: \u201cfree competition, this selection which heartlessly favours only uncouth and rough persons whose only merits are those of passing tests, doing their job well and knowing their business, is naturally resented by most Italians\u201d.2. An Italian Education by Tim Parks Less popular and humorous than his best-selling Italian Neighbours, Parks\u2019s sequel does more than any book I know to explain how Italians become Italians. The title is inaccurate: it is not about schooling, and ought really to have been called An Italian Upbringing. Wonderfully perceptive on relations between and within the generations: \u201cWhen a mother calls out Amore without further specification, she is calling for her son.\u201d3. Cosi Fan Tutti by Michael DibdinAll the Aurelio Zen novels give an unblinkered, yet fundamentally sympathetic, view of Italy. I picked this one because it is set in Naples, a city that deserves Dibdin\u2019s mixture of cynicism and affection more than any other. What makes his whodunnits special is that his hero is usually trying not to solve a crime (because to do so would be politically and/or personally inconvenient), but always succeeds in doing so.4. The Leopard by Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa5. Christ Stopped At Eboli by Carlo LeviFor perspective. Levi\u2019s description of the part of southern Italy to which he was exiled under Mussolini is a reminder of the appalling poverty from which many Italian families emerged during Italy\u2019s \u201ceconomic miracle\u201d, little more than 50 years ago. Also a good antidote to the stereotype of \u201cCatholic Italy\u201d: \u201cThere\u2019s no grace of God in this village,\u201d says its drunken priest. \u201cI say my mass to empty benches.\u201d6. Midnight in Sicily by Peter RobbOnly partly about Sicily; more an exploration of the corrupt dynamics of Christian Democracy enlivened by digressions into the art, literature and gastronomy of the Mezzogiorno. Ideally read in conjunction with Paul Ginsborg\u2019s masterly History of Contemporary Italy: Society and Politics 1943-1988.7. The Sack of Rome by Alexander StilleIt is striking how many books about Italy have deceptive titles. This one is really a biography of Silvio Berlusconi. It suffered from being published in 2006 when the media tycoon had just lost an election and his political career seemed over. The Sack of Rome pre-dates Bunga Bunga, but foreshadows it, and remains the most penetrating exploration of the doings of the man who, more than any, has shaped the outlook of today\u2019s Italians: \u201cBerlusconi believes that the world revolves him \u2013 the ultimate narcissistic fantasy \u2013 but he has bent reality to fit his fantasy, so that much of life in Italy does indeed revolve around him.\u201d8. The Oxford Companion to Italian Food by Gillian RileyWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on food? The only reason not to buy Riley\u2019s 636-page dictionary-cum-encyclopedia is doubt about the strength of your bookshelves. Authoritative (it won an Italian award) and written with an eye for anecdote, it can just as profitably be browsed for pleasure as consulted for information.9. Calcio: a History of Italian Football by John FootWhat sort of a list of books on Italy would lack one on soccer? This is another compendious yet entertainingly written volume. Calcio begins with the foundation by the British in 1893 of the Genoa Cricket and Football Club (from which Italians were banned), but then advances thematically with chapters on everything from the referees to the fans and from fantasisti to football\u2019s intimate entanglement with Italian politics.10. Italian Journey 1786-88 by Johann Wolfgang von GoetheI had thought of leaving this out on the grounds that it tells us more about Goethe than Italy. But it is one of the first accounts \u2013 and the most beautiful \u2013 of how the chaotic, impulsive, sensual south seduces we ratiocinating northerners, making Goethe, the creative outsider, \u201cfeel at home in the world, neither a stranger nor an exile\u201d.", "tags": ["History", "Fiction", "Italy holidays", "Books", "Culture", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "The top 10 books about Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-10T05:00:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Vladimir Putin might not have been welcome at the G7 meeting of world leaders in Germany this week, but when he touches down in Milan on Wednesday, the Russian president is likely to receive a far warmer welcome than he would in any of the other large EU countries.Putin is travelling to Italy to visit the Russian pavilion at the expo in Milan on Russia day (the Russian Federation\u2019s national holiday) and will then head to Rome. His itinerary includes meetings with Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, Sergio Mattarella, the Italian president, and Pope Francis, whom Putin will meet at the apostolic palace in Vatican City in late afternoon. It will be their first meeting since 2013, when Francis and the Russian leader met in St Petersburg at a G20 meeting hosted by Russia.The presidential visit underscores Russia\u2019s cosy relationship with Italy at a time when Putin is otherwise being treated as a pariah on the world stage. Barack Obama, the US president, warned at the G7 summit this week that world leaders were prepared to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalated. Related: Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire Putin\u2019s affinity for Italy and his friendship with billionaire Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian premier, are so well known that the biggest news out of a critical summit in Milan last October \u2013 which included a meeting between Putin and Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine \u2013 was the late-night rendezvous between Putin and Berlusconi at the former premier\u2019s villa that lasted until 3am.In March, Renzi became the first European leader to be hosted in a bilateral meeting in Moscow since Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea last year \u2013 a meeting that was met with displeasure by the US, according to an American official at the time. The meeting with Renzi came only days after Boris Nemtsov, the Russian opposition politician, was murdered near the Kremlin as he was walking home. Another Italian politician, Matteo Salvini, who heads the anti-euro anti-immigrant Northern League party, has been an outspoken critic against sanctions against Russia. The Northern League has even shepherded a movement to create a parliamentary group called Friends of Putin, which has praised the Russian leader as an essential counterweight to the Obama administration.No Italians were included in the list of 89 EU citizens who were banned from entering Russia by Russian authorities, according to a list that was published by Finnish state broadcaster YLE earlier this month. It appeared to be another sign of the countries\u2019 close ties. Related: French philosopher and Swedish tax chief among EU 89 banned by Russia Giancarlo Aragona, a former Italian ambassador to Russia who heads the Italian Institute for International Political Studies thinktank, told the Guardian that Italy had maintained a dialogue with Russia but that did not contradict the fact that Italy was \u201cfully committed\u201d to the European policy in relation to Russia, including the implementation of sanctions and decisions related to the crisis in Ukraine.Aragona acknowledged there was a perception that Italy was somehow \u201cmore sympathetic\u201d to Russia than other European countries. But he added: \u201cI think that is not really a fair representation of the situation. I think the real issue is that [the Italian government] consider the Ukrainian issue a cause of very serious tension but also a symptom of a European order, [or] European architecture, which has not found its stability at the end of the cold war.\u201dAragona then added: \u201cWe see the European evolution probably more clearly and objectively than some of our European partners.\u201dIn his interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Putin emphasised the strong trade relationship between Italy and Russia, noting that it had increased elevenfold in recent years from $4.2bn to nearly $49bn, as well as mutual interests in the energy sector and hi-tech.While the meeting with Renzi will be closely watched, the talks between Putin and Pope Francis are sure to have Rome riveted. The Argentinian pontiff caused controversy last month when he met with Mahmoud Abbas \u2013 an encounter in which he might or might not have referred to the Palestinian president as an \u201cangel of peace\u201d, according to conflicting news reports. His meeting with Putin will be followed just as closely.A report in Crux, an online news site that closely follows the Vatican, noted that Francis and Putin were something of an \u201codd geopolitical couple\u201d who had formed an \u201cimprobably strong partnership\u201d. It began after the Pope sent a letter to Putin in 2013 \u2013 before the G20 meeting in Moscow \u2013 urging leaders to find a non-military solution to the conflict in Syria. In his talk with other world leaders, Putin reportedly quoted from the pope\u2019s letter, saying: \u201cWe might listen to the Pope.\u201d No military action was taken.Putin has also spoken out about the \u201cdire\u201d situation facing Christians in the Middle East who are being persecuted and killed \u2013 a topic that is frequently also mentioned by the pope. The pontiff has chided world leaders for seeking to diminish anti-Christian violence and the topic is likely to be raised on Wednesday.Pope Francis has also sought to strengthen ties with the Russian Orthodox church as part of a broader aim to promote Christian unity. But he is not expected to ignore the biggest source of criticism against Putin internationally: the crisis in Ukraine. In February, the pontiff referred to the bloodshed in the ongoing war as \u201cfratricidal\u201d, a comment seen as controversial in Ukraine, where the violence is viewed as a direct consequence of Russian aggression.Anatolij Babynskyj, editor of a prominent Greek Catholic journal, told Crux: \u201cIt shows the ignorance of the pope about the situation in Ukraine.\u201dAsked what the pope and Putin were likely to discuss at their meeting on Wednesday, the Vatican told the Guardian: \u201cYou can only speculate on the topics of the discussions.\u201d", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Italy", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Pope Francis", "Vatican", "European Union"], "title": "Putin's trip to Rome underscores Russia's special relationship with Italy"},{"date": "2015-06-05T10:17:34Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Turin may look a bit like Paris, but culturally, for me, it\u2019s more like Detroit. They have a lot in common. In the 1960s Detroit was one of the richest cities in the world and that was a golden age for Turin too; they were both huge in the motor industry, and now have an edgy, creative, entrepreneurial pulse.When the Fiat factory drastically reduced its production, the city had to find a new way to survive \u2013 and our cultural and entrepreneurial side grew. Hosting the 2006 Winter Olympics was fantastic. Before that we were thought of as a grey, industrial city, but we became better-known globally, and more confident, too.Music is massive here: it\u2019s Italy\u2019s capital of electronic music. The Kappa FuturFestival in July takes place in the amazing Parco Dora, one of Europe\u2019s most futuristic parks, created in what was an industrial wasteland. Then there\u2019s the Movement festival in the winter in Lingotto, a former Fiat car factory. There\u2019s a big underground scene, with so many producers and DJs that\u2019s it\u2019s easy to have a lot of fun.You\u2019ll get the best DJs, the best music, but not the best service here! Turin isn\u2019t known for fashionable bars, like Milan \u2013 the nightlife is more rough and basic. Go to Mad Dog in the city centre for quality cocktails. It\u2019s got that speakeasy vibe. One of my favourite clubs is Loud, which is about a year old now and plays techno every Saturday.Banco Vini e Alimenti has the best biodynamic wine menu in Italy. Whenever friends come to Turin, I take them there for dinner. Lo Spaccio Alimentare is great for traditional food like vitello tonnato \u2013 veal served cold with a tuna sauce. Turin is a culinary destination, the food\u2019s amazing \u2013 you must try our chocolate!Turin is one of the most affordable cities in Italy and has a huge student population. There are two big institutions: the uni and the polytechnic, with about 100,000 students and staff. More and more students are coming here because it\u2019s cheap and offers a good lifestyle, a bit like Berlin. There\u2019s no end of cheap bars and places to eat. On every corner there\u2019s a new pizza place, a new ice-cream shop \u2026Via Verdi in the city centre is one of my favourite streets. It\u2019s very narrow, with no cars. You start at Castle Square and follow it to the river. You\u2019ll pass the royal theatre, the royal stables, the university dating from 1700, the national cinema museum, the first radio building \u2026 so much history! We were the first capital of Italy \u2013 you can visit the Palace of Venaria outside town. It\u2019s our Versailles.The family-run Art Hotel Boston is particularly lovely. Roberto, the owner, is a collector, so the whole place is full of contemporary art, and each room is different.Turin has many old, traditional cafes where poets and intellectuals used to hang out at the beginning of the last century. I love Caff\u00e8 Mulassano, which recently turned 110 \u2013 it\u2019s very decorative, all dark wood, leather and gold. It\u2019s known as the inventor of the tramezzino, a square cut sandwich \u2013 there are about 30 varieties and they\u2019re delicious.The best view of the city is from Superga Basilica, site of the Grande Torino football club plane crash in 1949. You can see the Alps from there. We\u2019re close to the mountains and the sea, a perfect location \u2013 you can ski or be on the beach in about an hour.\u2022 Maurizio Vitale is the founder of Movement Entertainment and Kappa FuturFestival (11-12 July, day tickets from \u20ac40)", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Music mogul Maurizio Vitale's Turin highlights"},{"date": "2015-05-26T17:38:59Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A judge in Milan has shut the door on Uber\u2019s ride-sharing business in Italy, dealing a major blow to the $41bn (\u00a326.6bn) US company\u2019s ambitions in Europe.Tuesday\u2019s ruling that Uber\u2019s Pop service creates \u201cunfair competition\u201d effectively holds the private company to the same standard as a public taxi service. UberPop, similar to UberX in the UK, allows users of the Uber smartphone app to order a ride from a driver without a commercial licence. By contrast Italian taxi drivers are highly regulated with severe limits on availability of taxi licences. That fact, the court ruled, made UberPop illegal, just like any other taxi company operating without a licence. Uber has argued that it is essentially a technology company and differs from a traditional taxi service because it limits its availability to users of its app, and does not pick passengers up off the street.UberBlack, which uses drivers with professional licences who have been vetted by the company, will continue to be available in Milan and Rome.  Related: 'Uber protest' by black cab drivers brings traffic chaos to Westminster The news further complicated Uber\u2019s plans to expand in Europe, where Uber\u2019s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said earlier this year that he would create 50,000 new jobs by forging \u201cnew partnerships\u201d in major European cities.Since then, Uber has faced more road blocks than green lights. It is the subject of a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and an injunction against it in Geneva. Its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain have also been banned.The company is also facing trouble closer to home. US authorities are examining why some British users of its taxi-booking app were allegedly charged for rides they did not book or make. Uber said it had seen no evidence of a security breach.Compared to its legal woes in other European cities, Uber had been operating in Italy without the restrictions that it has faced elsewhere. But the company now has weeks to cease operating its Pop service or risk heavy fines.\u201cWe are obviously very disappointed by today\u2019s decision on UberPop, a decision that we respect but that we do not understand,\u201d said Zac de Kievit, the legal director of Uber Europe, adding that he was most concerned about drivers who were suddenly facing unemployment.De Kievit said Uber would appeal against the decision and pointed out that the European commission had said that member states ought to ensure \u201cfairness, proportionality, and no discrimination\u201d in the regulation of new technologies.Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maff\u00e8, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan, where Uber is based, said the judge\u2019s ruling was \u201cembarrassing\u201d and \u201centirely ideological\u201d.\u201cIt is a very bad sign of the limitation of innovation [in Italy],\u201d he said. \u201cThis is the first case that I know of where a single judge \u2013 one person \u2013 can decide to stop a service at a national level on the basis of an [unsubstantiated] economic and theoretical argument.\u201d", "tags": ["Uber", "Italy", "Apps", "Technology", "Road transport"], "title": "Uber ordered to discontinue Pop service in Italy"},{"date": "2015-05-20T09:18:20Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy\u2019s coastline can stun us with its views or draw us in with its romance \u2013 and we want to hear what makes it so special to you, from the beaches and cafes that line the harbours of your favourite fishing village to great little places to stay within reach of the sea. Send us a tip and you could win a \u00a3200 hotel voucher. Contribute via GuardianWitness. The best tips will appear in print in next weekend\u2019s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a \u00a3200 hotel voucher from Hotels.com, allowing you stay in over 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tips by clicking on the blue button and using the text tab. Try and include as much detail as possible (location, any website addresses, prices etc) and feel free to add a photo if you own the copyright to it \u2013 but it\u2019s the text we\u2019ll be judging!Your tip should be around 100 words long. Terms and conditions.Closes 27 May 10am GMT\u2022 GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Travel", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "The coastline of Italy: send us your tips"},{"date": "2015-05-23T18:43:47Z", "country": "italy", "content": "British jihadis heading to Syria are increasingly choosing to travel south through Italy and across the Mediterranean to north Africa in order to evade detection to reach the forces of Islamic State. The route is in the opposite direction of the main migration channel north for the tens of thousands of people attempting to cross the Mediterranean from Libya before moving up through Italy, often starting in Sicily.Sources monitoring the movements of British jihadis say that to avoid security measures at UK airports Isis recruits are crossing the channel by ferry then heading to Italy from where they sail south to north Africa, frequently landing in Tunisia before crossing into Libya.Libya is viewed as a favourable destination for British Isis recruits bound for Syria as it is increasingly coming under the control of Isis. The troubled north African state is now the third biggest stronghold for the group and follows a week in which it has consolidated its grip on its self-declared caliphate in Syria and Iraq.Isis fighters in Libya recently took control of Sirte, the home town of Muammar Gaddafi, defeating forces loyal to the country\u2019s unofficial administration in Tripoli.\u201cWe are seeing more and more taking the route across the Mediterranean to Libya; it\u2019s becoming established. When they get there they are looked after. You can even follow some of them on Facebook going through Italy,\u201d said a source.Earlier this month, an adviser to the Libyan government alleged that Isis fighters were being smuggled into Europe by traffickers in the Mediterranean, claiming that militants were hiding on boats filled with migrants. Officials in Italy and Egypt have previously warned that Isis fighters could reach Europe via migrant boats, although experts caution that it is very difficult to verify or assess such claims.Closer to home, scrutiny remains on the number of secret messaging mobile phone apps that are reported to have been hijacked by terrorists who allegedly use them to persuade British children to join Isis. The apps, which allow anyone to send encrypted messages, can be downloaded free and can be opened only by a private key. Critics claim Isis recruiters are therefore able to share their plots in secret, but the apps\u2019 owners argue that private communications are a \u201chuman right\u201d for everyone.The Home Office say that such developments confirm that the police and security services are \u201closing capabilities\u201d to keep track of terrorists.Home secretary Theresa May said: \u201cRapid changes in technology, and particularly the increasing importance of internet communications, means that communications data is not always available when it is needed.\u201dConcerns that such statements indicate a threat to freedom of speech follow details of a plan by May to introduce counter-extremism powers to vet British broadcasters\u2019 programmes before they are transmitted.Cabinet colleague, Sajid Javid, the culture secretary, wrote to David Cameron to say that he was unable to support May\u2019s proposal to give Ofcom the new powers to take pre-emptive action against programmes that included \u201cextremist content\u201d.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "UK news", "Libya", "Syria", "Italy", "Internet", "Mobile phones"], "title": "British jihadis heading to join Isis switch routes via Italy"},{"date": "2015-05-13T11:52:17Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Economic recovery in the eurozone accelerated in the first quarter, boosted by a return to growth in France and Italy.Outpacing both the UK and US economies, the single-currency bloc grew by 0.4% between January and March, improving on the fourth quarter of 2014, when gross domestic product increased by 0.3%. It was the fastest rate of growth in almost two years.The French economy smashed expectations, expanding by 0.6% in the first quarter following zero growth in the previous quarter. Italy also returned to growth, with GDP expanding by 0.3%, and Spain was a star performer, growing by 0.9%.Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING, said a country breakdown of the figures suggested the eurozone\u2019s recovery was becoming more widespread. He warned, however, that the region\u2019s crisis-hit economy was not out of the woods yet, partly because Greece\u2019s debt problems remain unresolved.\u201cGrowth is clearly broadening across the eurozone. That said, the jury is still out whether eurozone growth has reached enough escape velocity to see a self-sustained recovery.\u201cA resolution for the Greek problems will also be needed to lift the uncertainty that still prevents businesses to increase investment.\u201dThe Greek economy shrank by 0.2% in the first three months of the year, plunging the troubled country back into recession following a 0.4% fall in GDP in the previous quarter.German growth more than halved to 0.3% from 0.7% in the fourth quarter of 2014. Net trade was a drag on Europe\u2019s largest economy, with imports growing at a faster rate than exports.There was little detail in the first estimate of GDP from the statistics agency, Eurostat, but individual country reports suggested expansion was broadly driven by demand at home rather than abroad.\u201cIt seems that growth has come principally from domestic demand, with consumption benefitting from the drop in energy prices and buoyant financial markets boosting confidence,\u201d said Vanden Houte.\u201cAlthough the euro exchange rate weakened over the first quarter the boost to exports remained probably small, as relative price changes take time to filter through into trade flows. On top of that, growth in the emerging world disappointed, implying less demand for European exports.\u201dThe eurozone economy outperformed the UK and US economies in the first quarter. Growth in the UK halved unexpectedly to 0.3% in the first three months of the year, while the US economy came to a virtual standstill, scraping growth of just 0.1%.The eurozone\u2019s annual growth rate edged up to 1% between January and March, from 0.9% in the previous quarter. A pickup in the eurozone will soothe fears that the region is stuck in a rut of consistently sluggish growth. Deflationary fears have also started to fade, helped by a partial rebound in oil prices.Zero inflation in April brought to an end a four-month spell of eurozone deflation. Growth in France was the strongest in two years in the first quarter, fuelled by a surge in consumer spending according to the national statistics office, Insee. Economists had predicted a smaller rebound of 0.4%.Christian Schulz, senior economist at the German bank Berenberg, said: \u201cCheap oil was a major driver of growth, with consumption making big contributions in the first quarter in France and Germany.\u201dDestatis, the German data agency, said: \u201cForeign trade had a downward effect on economic growth. Although, according to provisional calculations, exports of goods and services were slightly up at the beginning of 2015 compared with the fourth quarter of 2014, imports recorded a much stronger increase.\u201d The annual growth rate in Germany slowed to 1.1% from 1.6%.", "tags": ["Eurozone", "France", "Business", "Europe", "Germany", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Eurozone GDP: French economy smashes expectations with 0.6% growth"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-02T12:10:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": " Drive two hours from Ostuni, or 20 minutes south along the coast from Otranto, and you\u2019ll find hot thermal springs gushing from four caves \u2013 Gatulla, Solfurea, Fetida and Solfatara \u2013 along 500m of dramatic coastline near the pretty town of Santa Cesarea Terme. On the sea front, there are a couple of pizzerias and a year-round thermal bathing pool. Terme di Santa Cesarea health spa is also nearby. The whole coastline is rugged, with lots of undiscovered coves to swim in. Catherine Woodruff  Related: Unspoilt Italy: fall head over heel for Puglia's Salento region  Head to the little town of Castro, south of Lecce on the Adriatic coast, and hire a boat from one of the companies at the marina for a tour of the nearby natural caves. The biggest and most spectacular is the Zinzulusa grotto, which resembles a rocky mouth opening onto the sea. It is a maze of colourful stalactites and stalagmites and there\u2019s an internal lake. You can take a guided visit or just swim and snorkel off the boat outside the cave. nauticaredcoral.it canaria  If my favourite, the local speciality pezzetti te cavallu (a slow-cooked dish of tender horse meat in a tomato sauce) isn\u2019t quite your thing, Lecce osteria Alle Due Corti (Corte dei Giugni 1) also serves incredible stuffed aubergines, pasta and spring lamb. Wash it down with a drop of primitivo di manduria, Puglia\u2019s answer to zinfandel. They call Lecce the Florence of the south, but everything is more feisty, fleshy, scorched and fragrant.+39 0832-242223, alleduecorti.com amaliamercedes  Trani, 50km north of Bari, is home to one of the most beautiful buildings in southern Italy. The cathedral, built of soft white-pink limestone at the edge of Trani\u2019s marina, is a spectacular sight, perfect for photographers. Despite being relatively plain (by Italian ecclesiastical standards), the exterior rewards close examination with lovely decorative details \u2013 see if you can spot the elephant corbels. The interior is astonishingly bright and airy. After visiting, head to the marina for spaghetti scoglio and a glass of wine. chrisklee  Enjoy spumone, a Puglianese treat combining ice cream with sponge cake and liqueur. The best place we found to try it was Martinucci Caffetterie in the coastal town of Otranto (Via Lungomare 59). Next door is Dal Baffo, one of the best restaurants in town. They have special evenings with a set menu, paired with local wines and live music. Try local specialities such as smoked swordfish carpaccio, stuffed squid or the chef\u2019s orange cake. tekton23  In the first week of July (5-7) the rural village of Scorrano showcases breathtaking structures, some 36m high, which light up in honour of the town\u2019s patron, Santa Domenica. The festival has earned the title of Capitale Mondiale Delle Luminarie and is very popular, so it\u2019s a good idea to arrive early to avoid traffic queues \u2013 the city organises huge parking areas outside the village. santadomenicascorrano.it Yolandanda  The historical walled town of Otranto is worth visiting in its own right, to walk through cobbled streets, chill out on the beach or stroll around the harbour with a local panzerrotti (a sort of cheese-and-ham mini pizza) but it really becomes animated and lively during the week-long summer jazz festival, a not-for-profit affair held in the grounds of the castle overlooking the town (from 24 July in 2015). Open air and candle lit, the atmosphere and setting are amazing. TheCapeCrusaider  Martina Franca\u2019s outskirts may look grim but head to the Centro Storico (old town) and you\u2019ll find a delightful and fairly tourist-free, by contrast with Lecce, baroque centre that\u2019s lively of a summer evening. For a more interesting wine choice here, try negroamaro rather than primitivo. captaindiy  Monopoli doesn\u2019t get the same attention as other nearby towns like Polignano, Alberobello or Ostuni. It\u2019s perhaps less spectacular than those places \u2013 a town adored far more by knowing natives than by the tourist guides \u2013 but is well worth visiting for its narrow streets flowing around its delightful port and offers some truly outstanding seafood restaurants, as well as a beautiful cathedral. ID6679981  Related: The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips Stay in the hilltop town of Ostuni, a good base for exploring the region: it\u2019s attractive, has good restaurants and is central. Hill towns are rightly considered one of Puglia\u2019s glories, but the best are difficult for tourists with a car because of parking. Unforgettable (and easy to get to) is Egnazia, on the coast road near Monopoli. Egnazia was ancient when the Romans came, and it is well preserved in a sprawling site as evocative as Pompeii. ID2956150  With a bit of forward planning, it\u2019s possible to do a pretty comprehensive tour of Puglia by train. The peninsula\u2019s network takes in the unmissable ports of Otranto and Gallipoli, Bari and Brindisi, as well as the splendid inland towns of Lecce and Ostuni. Don\u2019t miss the line connecting Martina Franca, Locorotondo and Alberobello, which winds through flower-filled valleys where untouched Trulli houses are scattered through the olive groves. Trains rumble along in an unhurried fashion and some destinations are served infrequently, so allow a few days to make the most of this diverse region. trenitalia.com marthah", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Puglia, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-02T12:10:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": " Drive two hours from Ostuni, or 20 minutes south along the coast from Otranto, and you\u2019ll find hot thermal springs gushing from four caves \u2013 Gatulla, Solfurea, Fetida and Solfatara \u2013 along 500m of dramatic coastline near the pretty town of Santa Cesarea Terme. On the sea front, there are a couple of pizzerias and a year-round thermal bathing pool. Terme di Santa Cesarea health spa is also nearby. The whole coastline is rugged, with lots of undiscovered coves to swim in. Catherine Woodruff  Related: Unspoilt Italy: fall head over heel for Puglia's Salento region  Head to the little town of Castro, south of Lecce on the Adriatic coast, and hire a boat from one of the companies at the marina for a tour of the nearby natural caves. The biggest and most spectacular is the Zinzulusa grotto, which resembles a rocky mouth opening onto the sea. It is a maze of colourful stalactites and stalagmites and there\u2019s an internal lake. You can take a guided visit or just swim and snorkel off the boat outside the cave. nauticaredcoral.it canaria  If my favourite, the local speciality pezzetti te cavallu (a slow-cooked dish of tender horse meat in a tomato sauce) isn\u2019t quite your thing, Lecce osteria Alle Due Corti (Corte dei Giugni 1) also serves incredible stuffed aubergines, pasta and spring lamb. Wash it down with a drop of primitivo di manduria, Puglia\u2019s answer to zinfandel. They call Lecce the Florence of the south, but everything is more feisty, fleshy, scorched and fragrant.+39 0832-242223, alleduecorti.com amaliamercedes  Trani, 50km north of Bari, is home to one of the most beautiful buildings in southern Italy. The cathedral, built of soft white-pink limestone at the edge of Trani\u2019s marina, is a spectacular sight, perfect for photographers. Despite being relatively plain (by Italian ecclesiastical standards), the exterior rewards close examination with lovely decorative details \u2013 see if you can spot the elephant corbels. The interior is astonishingly bright and airy. After visiting, head to the marina for spaghetti scoglio and a glass of wine. chrisklee  Enjoy spumone, a Puglianese treat combining ice cream with sponge cake and liqueur. The best place we found to try it was Martinucci Caffetterie in the coastal town of Otranto (Via Lungomare 59). Next door is Dal Baffo, one of the best restaurants in town. They have special evenings with a set menu, paired with local wines and live music. Try local specialities such as smoked swordfish carpaccio, stuffed squid or the chef\u2019s orange cake. tekton23  In the first week of July (5-7) the rural village of Scorrano showcases breathtaking structures, some 36m high, which light up in honour of the town\u2019s patron, Santa Domenica. The festival has earned the title of Capitale Mondiale Delle Luminarie and is very popular, so it\u2019s a good idea to arrive early to avoid traffic queues \u2013 the city organises huge parking areas outside the village. santadomenicascorrano.it Yolandanda  The historical walled town of Otranto is worth visiting in its own right, to walk through cobbled streets, chill out on the beach or stroll around the harbour with a local panzerrotti (a sort of cheese-and-ham mini pizza) but it really becomes animated and lively during the week-long summer jazz festival, a not-for-profit affair held in the grounds of the castle overlooking the town (from 24 July in 2015). Open air and candle lit, the atmosphere and setting are amazing. TheCapeCrusaider  Martina Franca\u2019s outskirts may look grim but head to the Centro Storico (old town) and you\u2019ll find a delightful and fairly tourist-free, by contrast with Lecce, baroque centre that\u2019s lively of a summer evening. For a more interesting wine choice here, try negroamaro rather than primitivo. captaindiy  Monopoli doesn\u2019t get the same attention as other nearby towns like Polignano, Alberobello or Ostuni. It\u2019s perhaps less spectacular than those places \u2013 a town adored far more by knowing natives than by the tourist guides \u2013 but is well worth visiting for its narrow streets flowing around its delightful port and offers some truly outstanding seafood restaurants, as well as a beautiful cathedral. ID6679981  Related: The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips Stay in the hilltop town of Ostuni, a good base for exploring the region: it\u2019s attractive, has good restaurants and is central. Hill towns are rightly considered one of Puglia\u2019s glories, but the best are difficult for tourists with a car because of parking. Unforgettable (and easy to get to) is Egnazia, on the coast road near Monopoli. Egnazia was ancient when the Romans came, and it is well preserved in a sprawling site as evocative as Pompeii. ID2956150  With a bit of forward planning, it\u2019s possible to do a pretty comprehensive tour of Puglia by train. The peninsula\u2019s network takes in the unmissable ports of Otranto and Gallipoli, Bari and Brindisi, as well as the splendid inland towns of Lecce and Ostuni. Don\u2019t miss the line connecting Martina Franca, Locorotondo and Alberobello, which winds through flower-filled valleys where untouched Trulli houses are scattered through the olive groves. Trains rumble along in an unhurried fashion and some destinations are served infrequently, so allow a few days to make the most of this diverse region. trenitalia.com marthah", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Puglia, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "OverviewBy Jonathan Lee, author of the Wallpaper city guide to TurinTurin could be the blueprint for the post-industrial city of the future. Once Italy\u2019s manufacturing powerhouse, spearheaded by the mighty Fiat, the city expanded rapidly beyond its elegant heart of Paris-style boulevards throughout the 20th century. But by the 1980s, global competition had put the brakes on the city\u2019s economy: more than 100,000 workers lost their jobs and thriving factory districts withered to moribund hinterland. But since then this most pragmatic of Italian cities has chosen to invest and reinvent with gusto, carving out new cultural spaces, sprucing up old classics such as Museo Egizio and Del Cambio, and splurging on trams and metro trains. For proof, hop north of the centre to Parco Dora, a former factory district once whirring with the production lines of Fiat, Michelin and carpet manufacturer Paracchi. Now completely transformed, the park\u2019s centrepiece is a picked-clean skeleton of soaring girders, creating a vast space for kids to skate and scoot, play basketball and football, and turn out in their thousands for gigs and events such as Kappa FuturFestival. Head east to find Barriera di Milano, a once-deprived quarter now blooming with artists\u2019 studios and microbusinesses in places such as the 1912 warehouse complex Docks Dora, which is flanked by another showpiece reclamation project, Parco Aurelio Peccei. Just south of Barriera di Milano, in Aurora, lies the nascent Lavazza quarter, soon to house the coffee giant\u2019s new HQ, and down the road is cultural hub Fitzlab, artist collective Diogene and Teatro Espace. Hugging the other side of the Dora Riparia river in Vanchiglia is Foster + Partners\u2019 curvaceous new Campus Luigi Einaudi, while to the west in Borgo Dora is performance venue Cortile del Maglio and writing school Scuola Holden.Of course, Turin doesn\u2019t get it right every time. To the south, the Olympic Village\u2019s shopping complex is an abandoned shell, and while biking around this pancake-flat metropolis should be a breeze, the cycle network is patchy and you have to sign up in advance before you can pick up a bright yellow [TO]BIKE from one of the city\u2019s 116 docking stations. Related: Top 10 restaurants in Turin Also, it\u2019s important not to overlook two areas that have already \u201cup and come\u201d. The gentrifying southern district of San Salvario still offers the best bars and apericena in town, particularly around the crossroads of via Sant\u2019Anselmo and via Giuseppe Baretti. And a trip further south to Lingotto, home of the Fiat mothership, is a must, if only to relive scenes from The Italian Job on its service ramp. Here you can dine at slow food emporium Eataly and get even closer to the future inside Renzo Piano\u2019s ground-breaking \u201cbioclimatic\u201d (naturally ventilated and cooled) skyscraper, Intesa SanPaolo Tower, complete with rooftop greenhouse.By Giorgio Valletta, DJ and co-organiser of electronic music festival Club To ClubTurin has always been, in spirit, a laboratory. Half of Italy\u2019s best dance and electronic music is produced here. If you\u2019re coming for a weekend of spontaneous live music, you should definitely head for San Salvario or Vanchiglia. The latter quarter is more progressive and artistic, while San Salvario offers lots of intimate bars with live music and DJs. For me, Blah Blah is the de facto central venue. It\u2019s got a rock and indie identity but dips into disco and rave too. Hop east across the river Po to find Cap 10100, a new live rock spot attracting a younger crowd.I have a daily show called Primo Ascolto on Radio Flash and often head to San Salvario\u2019s Astoria to track down emerging international artists such as multi-faceted Canadian producer, singer and songwriter Grimes. Vaghe Stelle, Turin\u2019s leading electronica outfit, also plays here.In Lingotto, there\u2019s Hiroshima Mon Amour, a real institution based in a former school. It made its name by launching Torinesi rock, punk, reggae and pop acts before adding electronica to the mix. We have a very fertile local electronica scene and one of the most important festivals is TOdays, an August (28, 29, 30 in 2015) three-dayer with sPAZIO 211 as its key venue.Two other important festivals are October\u2019s Movement, which majors on house and techno, and Club To Club, my November festival, which attracted 40,000 people last year. We\u2019ve shifted away from DJs a tad towards live electronica and guests such as Four Tet, Todd Terje and Jamie xx.Another must is #raveon at Bunker in Barriera di Milano, an important club night running from September to June and organised by We Play the Music We Love.I think Turin always pushes the agenda musically, but there\u2019s also a hedonistic streak. It\u2019s this combination that makes Turin so different and inspiring.By Maurizio Bray, co-founder of food blog Torino by GNAM!, with chef Vassily AndrusyshynHistorically, the Piemontesi are introverts, but Turin is becoming more open, embracing organic wine and food, new ingredients such as lemongrass and ginger, and new international flavours.Although it\u2019s saturated, San Salvario is still the hotspot. I really like La Cuite (Via Baretti 11/G), a vineria and cocktail bar full of young people and serving tapas at reasonable prices. A few minutes around the corner is ORSO, a 2014 coffee \u201claboratory\u201d serving feisty arabica and robusta from around the globe. It\u2019s linked to artisan gelateria Mara dei Boschi (Via Berthollet 30/H) \u2013 try the mouthwatering, cream-free, marotto chocolate flavour.Traditional Piemontese cuisine is rich and filling, with dishes heavy on butter, truffles and broths. For agnolotti Piemontese and the like, head to Ristorante Monferrato (Via Monferrato 6), founded in the leafy surrounds of Borgo Po in 1820. Related: The foodie traveller in Turin, at the Slow Food festival Coming up, I see three big foodie trends in Turin. First, there\u2019s the rise of \u201cconscious cuisine\u201d: organic, vegetarian and gluten-free piatti served in light, bright eateries such as Belfood Cucina in San Salvario, (Via Belfiore 15) and the central Cristina Perino (Via Carlo Alberto 28).Secondly, there\u2019s an emergence of street food, catering for the city\u2019s growing university population. You can tuck into pane con la milza, a fried beef spleen sandwich from Sicily, at places such as Sole di Sicilia (Via Livorno 6). And thirdly, our food culture is becoming more international. For example, at Dora in Poi (Via Catania 21) in Vanchiglietta, the restaurant where Vassily and I work, all our base ingredients are Piemontese \u2013 such as rice, garlic and salmon \u2013 but we have created dishes with influences from northern Europe, Asia and South America, so you\u2019ll see plenty of ceviche, dim sum, ramen-style soup and quinoa. Vassily\u2019s minestrone di frutta verdura, tiny pieces of peach, pineapple and mango dotted with gianduja chocolate, has changed my life!I would say Vanchiglia will be Turin\u2019s key emerging quarter over the next couple of years. It used to be full of workshops, but the opening of Campus Luigi Einaudi has swept in places such as Pai Bikery, a bike workshop-cum-cafe serving brunches of fruit pancakes and excellent salads. My final recommendation is Magazzino 52, a contemporary enoteca (wine shop) opened this summer by Graziano Cipriano, serving trad-meets-international dishes and a bargain \u20ac20 fixed menu.Torino is really a big village with a provincial feel, but there is a niche for people with an appetite for something different. The pace of change is just slower than Milan: slow food, slow change.By Ginevra Pucci and Stefania Poddighe, co-founders of November art fair FlashbackThere\u2019s currently a trend among the young to open new spaces across the city. That said, Turin\u2019s creative scene is quite underground, so you have to seek out the best work. At its vanguard is the historic quarter of Barriera di Milano, which is being transformed by an influx of artists and galleries. The 2014 opening of Museo Ettore Fico has proved a tipping point. There\u2019s a small exhibition of Fico\u2019s vibrant landscapes, but where it really excels is in combining art and design with experimental theatre, dance and debates in a modern space. Close by there are lots of studios and galleries such as GAS, which champions local talents like sculptor Fabio Viale. South of here is Galleria Franco Noero, which shows mixed media work by Lara Favaretto and others.\u201cNext, I\u2019d recommend heading south-west to explore established creative hotspots such as Fondazione Merz, which is great for live music, and Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo, which works closely with young artists.Across the city, in Vanchiglia, you\u2019ll find affordable works at new galleries such as NOPX, which excels at photography, and at Van Der and Quartz, both strong on below-the-radar creatives. Just north over the river is cultural centre Cripta747, a hub for Italian curators and artists.Even the upmarket shopping and gallery district around via della Rocca offers surprises such as cool clothing store TAF, and it\u2019s always worth visiting Lingotto\u2019s expos to discover the next big thing in design.We hold our Flashback art fair \u2013 which explores historical and modern art in a contemporary way \u2013 in early November (5-8). The whole world comes to town that week because there\u2019s also the design festival Operae, art fairs Artissima and The Others, and emerging talent showcase Paratissima.It doesn\u2019t matter when art was made; it\u2019s all contemporary. It\u2019s the emotion that it prompts in us today that\u2019s the key.There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations - from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Turin. These are just a few with more here:Il Balon di Torino and Gelateria PopolareGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city. Hannah BrewEgyptian MuseumYou need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist. Rossi WritesMulassano Caf\u00e8Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try. Fabrizio Zanelli Related: Instagram snapshots: Turin through the eyes of locals Circolo dei lettorA great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture. Lucy SerlengaCulture, shopping, food and drinkTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars. Giorgia Pigato\u2022 Thanks to Fondazione Ordine Architetti Torino and Casa Filiberto for their guidance and support", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Restaurants", "Clubbing", "Music festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "Music", "Weekend breaks", "Art and design", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Turin, Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-02T12:10:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": " Drive two hours from Ostuni, or 20 minutes south along the coast from Otranto, and you\u2019ll find hot thermal springs gushing from four caves \u2013 Gatulla, Solfurea, Fetida and Solfatara \u2013 along 500m of dramatic coastline near the pretty town of Santa Cesarea Terme. On the sea front, there are a couple of pizzerias and a year-round thermal bathing pool. Terme di Santa Cesarea health spa is also nearby. The whole coastline is rugged, with lots of undiscovered coves to swim in. Catherine Woodruff  Related: Unspoilt Italy: fall head over heel for Puglia's Salento region  Head to the little town of Castro, south of Lecce on the Adriatic coast, and hire a boat from one of the companies at the marina for a tour of the nearby natural caves. The biggest and most spectacular is the Zinzulusa grotto, which resembles a rocky mouth opening onto the sea. It is a maze of colourful stalactites and stalagmites and there\u2019s an internal lake. You can take a guided visit or just swim and snorkel off the boat outside the cave. nauticaredcoral.it canaria  If my favourite, the local speciality pezzetti te cavallu (a slow-cooked dish of tender horse meat in a tomato sauce) isn\u2019t quite your thing, Lecce osteria Alle Due Corti (Corte dei Giugni 1) also serves incredible stuffed aubergines, pasta and spring lamb. Wash it down with a drop of primitivo di manduria, Puglia\u2019s answer to zinfandel. They call Lecce the Florence of the south, but everything is more feisty, fleshy, scorched and fragrant.+39 0832-242223, alleduecorti.com amaliamercedes  Trani, 50km north of Bari, is home to one of the most beautiful buildings in southern Italy. The cathedral, built of soft white-pink limestone at the edge of Trani\u2019s marina, is a spectacular sight, perfect for photographers. Despite being relatively plain (by Italian ecclesiastical standards), the exterior rewards close examination with lovely decorative details \u2013 see if you can spot the elephant corbels. The interior is astonishingly bright and airy. After visiting, head to the marina for spaghetti scoglio and a glass of wine. chrisklee  Enjoy spumone, a Puglianese treat combining ice cream with sponge cake and liqueur. The best place we found to try it was Martinucci Caffetterie in the coastal town of Otranto (Via Lungomare 59). Next door is Dal Baffo, one of the best restaurants in town. They have special evenings with a set menu, paired with local wines and live music. Try local specialities such as smoked swordfish carpaccio, stuffed squid or the chef\u2019s orange cake. tekton23  In the first week of July (5-7) the rural village of Scorrano showcases breathtaking structures, some 36m high, which light up in honour of the town\u2019s patron, Santa Domenica. The festival has earned the title of Capitale Mondiale Delle Luminarie and is very popular, so it\u2019s a good idea to arrive early to avoid traffic queues \u2013 the city organises huge parking areas outside the village. santadomenicascorrano.it Yolandanda  The historical walled town of Otranto is worth visiting in its own right, to walk through cobbled streets, chill out on the beach or stroll around the harbour with a local panzerrotti (a sort of cheese-and-ham mini pizza) but it really becomes animated and lively during the week-long summer jazz festival, a not-for-profit affair held in the grounds of the castle overlooking the town (from 24 July in 2015). Open air and candle lit, the atmosphere and setting are amazing. TheCapeCrusaider  Martina Franca\u2019s outskirts may look grim but head to the Centro Storico (old town) and you\u2019ll find a delightful and fairly tourist-free, by contrast with Lecce, baroque centre that\u2019s lively of a summer evening. For a more interesting wine choice here, try negroamaro rather than primitivo. captaindiy  Monopoli doesn\u2019t get the same attention as other nearby towns like Polignano, Alberobello or Ostuni. It\u2019s perhaps less spectacular than those places \u2013 a town adored far more by knowing natives than by the tourist guides \u2013 but is well worth visiting for its narrow streets flowing around its delightful port and offers some truly outstanding seafood restaurants, as well as a beautiful cathedral. ID6679981  Related: The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips Stay in the hilltop town of Ostuni, a good base for exploring the region: it\u2019s attractive, has good restaurants and is central. Hill towns are rightly considered one of Puglia\u2019s glories, but the best are difficult for tourists with a car because of parking. Unforgettable (and easy to get to) is Egnazia, on the coast road near Monopoli. Egnazia was ancient when the Romans came, and it is well preserved in a sprawling site as evocative as Pompeii. ID2956150  With a bit of forward planning, it\u2019s possible to do a pretty comprehensive tour of Puglia by train. The peninsula\u2019s network takes in the unmissable ports of Otranto and Gallipoli, Bari and Brindisi, as well as the splendid inland towns of Lecce and Ostuni. Don\u2019t miss the line connecting Martina Franca, Locorotondo and Alberobello, which winds through flower-filled valleys where untouched Trulli houses are scattered through the olive groves. Trains rumble along in an unhurried fashion and some destinations are served infrequently, so allow a few days to make the most of this diverse region. trenitalia.com marthah", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Puglia, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "OverviewBy Jonathan Lee, author of the Wallpaper city guide to TurinTurin could be the blueprint for the post-industrial city of the future. Once Italy\u2019s manufacturing powerhouse, spearheaded by the mighty Fiat, the city expanded rapidly beyond its elegant heart of Paris-style boulevards throughout the 20th century. But by the 1980s, global competition had put the brakes on the city\u2019s economy: more than 100,000 workers lost their jobs and thriving factory districts withered to moribund hinterland. But since then this most pragmatic of Italian cities has chosen to invest and reinvent with gusto, carving out new cultural spaces, sprucing up old classics such as Museo Egizio and Del Cambio, and splurging on trams and metro trains. For proof, hop north of the centre to Parco Dora, a former factory district once whirring with the production lines of Fiat, Michelin and carpet manufacturer Paracchi. Now completely transformed, the park\u2019s centrepiece is a picked-clean skeleton of soaring girders, creating a vast space for kids to skate and scoot, play basketball and football, and turn out in their thousands for gigs and events such as Kappa FuturFestival. Head east to find Barriera di Milano, a once-deprived quarter now blooming with artists\u2019 studios and microbusinesses in places such as the 1912 warehouse complex Docks Dora, which is flanked by another showpiece reclamation project, Parco Aurelio Peccei. Just south of Barriera di Milano, in Aurora, lies the nascent Lavazza quarter, soon to house the coffee giant\u2019s new HQ, and down the road is cultural hub Fitzlab, artist collective Diogene and Teatro Espace. Hugging the other side of the Dora Riparia river in Vanchiglia is Foster + Partners\u2019 curvaceous new Campus Luigi Einaudi, while to the west in Borgo Dora is performance venue Cortile del Maglio and writing school Scuola Holden.Of course, Turin doesn\u2019t get it right every time. To the south, the Olympic Village\u2019s shopping complex is an abandoned shell, and while biking around this pancake-flat metropolis should be a breeze, the cycle network is patchy and you have to sign up in advance before you can pick up a bright yellow [TO]BIKE from one of the city\u2019s 116 docking stations. Related: Top 10 restaurants in Turin Also, it\u2019s important not to overlook two areas that have already \u201cup and come\u201d. The gentrifying southern district of San Salvario still offers the best bars and apericena in town, particularly around the crossroads of via Sant\u2019Anselmo and via Giuseppe Baretti. And a trip further south to Lingotto, home of the Fiat mothership, is a must, if only to relive scenes from The Italian Job on its service ramp. Here you can dine at slow food emporium Eataly and get even closer to the future inside Renzo Piano\u2019s ground-breaking \u201cbioclimatic\u201d (naturally ventilated and cooled) skyscraper, Intesa SanPaolo Tower, complete with rooftop greenhouse.By Giorgio Valletta, DJ and co-organiser of electronic music festival Club To ClubTurin has always been, in spirit, a laboratory. Half of Italy\u2019s best dance and electronic music is produced here. If you\u2019re coming for a weekend of spontaneous live music, you should definitely head for San Salvario or Vanchiglia. The latter quarter is more progressive and artistic, while San Salvario offers lots of intimate bars with live music and DJs. For me, Blah Blah is the de facto central venue. It\u2019s got a rock and indie identity but dips into disco and rave too. Hop east across the river Po to find Cap 10100, a new live rock spot attracting a younger crowd.I have a daily show called Primo Ascolto on Radio Flash and often head to San Salvario\u2019s Astoria to track down emerging international artists such as multi-faceted Canadian producer, singer and songwriter Grimes. Vaghe Stelle, Turin\u2019s leading electronica outfit, also plays here.In Lingotto, there\u2019s Hiroshima Mon Amour, a real institution based in a former school. It made its name by launching Torinesi rock, punk, reggae and pop acts before adding electronica to the mix. We have a very fertile local electronica scene and one of the most important festivals is TOdays, an August (28, 29, 30 in 2015) three-dayer with sPAZIO 211 as its key venue.Two other important festivals are October\u2019s Movement, which majors on house and techno, and Club To Club, my November festival, which attracted 40,000 people last year. We\u2019ve shifted away from DJs a tad towards live electronica and guests such as Four Tet, Todd Terje and Jamie xx.Another must is #raveon at Bunker in Barriera di Milano, an important club night running from September to June and organised by We Play the Music We Love.I think Turin always pushes the agenda musically, but there\u2019s also a hedonistic streak. It\u2019s this combination that makes Turin so different and inspiring.By Maurizio Bray, co-founder of food blog Torino by GNAM!, with chef Vassily AndrusyshynHistorically, the Piemontesi are introverts, but Turin is becoming more open, embracing organic wine and food, new ingredients such as lemongrass and ginger, and new international flavours.Although it\u2019s saturated, San Salvario is still the hotspot. I really like La Cuite (Via Baretti 11/G), a vineria and cocktail bar full of young people and serving tapas at reasonable prices. A few minutes around the corner is ORSO, a 2014 coffee \u201claboratory\u201d serving feisty arabica and robusta from around the globe. It\u2019s linked to artisan gelateria Mara dei Boschi (Via Berthollet 30/H) \u2013 try the mouthwatering, cream-free, marotto chocolate flavour.Traditional Piemontese cuisine is rich and filling, with dishes heavy on butter, truffles and broths. For agnolotti Piemontese and the like, head to Ristorante Monferrato (Via Monferrato 6), founded in the leafy surrounds of Borgo Po in 1820. Related: The foodie traveller in Turin, at the Slow Food festival Coming up, I see three big foodie trends in Turin. First, there\u2019s the rise of \u201cconscious cuisine\u201d: organic, vegetarian and gluten-free piatti served in light, bright eateries such as Belfood Cucina in San Salvario, (Via Belfiore 15) and the central Cristina Perino (Via Carlo Alberto 28).Secondly, there\u2019s an emergence of street food, catering for the city\u2019s growing university population. You can tuck into pane con la milza, a fried beef spleen sandwich from Sicily, at places such as Sole di Sicilia (Via Livorno 6). And thirdly, our food culture is becoming more international. For example, at Dora in Poi (Via Catania 21) in Vanchiglietta, the restaurant where Vassily and I work, all our base ingredients are Piemontese \u2013 such as rice, garlic and salmon \u2013 but we have created dishes with influences from northern Europe, Asia and South America, so you\u2019ll see plenty of ceviche, dim sum, ramen-style soup and quinoa. Vassily\u2019s minestrone di frutta verdura, tiny pieces of peach, pineapple and mango dotted with gianduja chocolate, has changed my life!I would say Vanchiglia will be Turin\u2019s key emerging quarter over the next couple of years. It used to be full of workshops, but the opening of Campus Luigi Einaudi has swept in places such as Pai Bikery, a bike workshop-cum-cafe serving brunches of fruit pancakes and excellent salads. My final recommendation is Magazzino 52, a contemporary enoteca (wine shop) opened this summer by Graziano Cipriano, serving trad-meets-international dishes and a bargain \u20ac20 fixed menu.Torino is really a big village with a provincial feel, but there is a niche for people with an appetite for something different. The pace of change is just slower than Milan: slow food, slow change.By Ginevra Pucci and Stefania Poddighe, co-founders of November art fair FlashbackThere\u2019s currently a trend among the young to open new spaces across the city. That said, Turin\u2019s creative scene is quite underground, so you have to seek out the best work. At its vanguard is the historic quarter of Barriera di Milano, which is being transformed by an influx of artists and galleries. The 2014 opening of Museo Ettore Fico has proved a tipping point. There\u2019s a small exhibition of Fico\u2019s vibrant landscapes, but where it really excels is in combining art and design with experimental theatre, dance and debates in a modern space. Close by there are lots of studios and galleries such as GAS, which champions local talents like sculptor Fabio Viale. South of here is Galleria Franco Noero, which shows mixed media work by Lara Favaretto and others.\u201cNext, I\u2019d recommend heading south-west to explore established creative hotspots such as Fondazione Merz, which is great for live music, and Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo, which works closely with young artists.Across the city, in Vanchiglia, you\u2019ll find affordable works at new galleries such as NOPX, which excels at photography, and at Van Der and Quartz, both strong on below-the-radar creatives. Just north over the river is cultural centre Cripta747, a hub for Italian curators and artists.Even the upmarket shopping and gallery district around via della Rocca offers surprises such as cool clothing store TAF, and it\u2019s always worth visiting Lingotto\u2019s expos to discover the next big thing in design.We hold our Flashback art fair \u2013 which explores historical and modern art in a contemporary way \u2013 in early November (5-8). The whole world comes to town that week because there\u2019s also the design festival Operae, art fairs Artissima and The Others, and emerging talent showcase Paratissima.It doesn\u2019t matter when art was made; it\u2019s all contemporary. It\u2019s the emotion that it prompts in us today that\u2019s the key.There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations - from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Turin. These are just a few with more here:Il Balon di Torino and Gelateria PopolareGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city. Hannah BrewEgyptian MuseumYou need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist. Rossi WritesMulassano Caf\u00e8Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try. Fabrizio Zanelli Related: Instagram snapshots: Turin through the eyes of locals Circolo dei lettorA great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture. Lucy SerlengaCulture, shopping, food and drinkTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars. Giorgia Pigato\u2022 Thanks to Fondazione Ordine Architetti Torino and Casa Filiberto for their guidance and support", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Restaurants", "Clubbing", "Music festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "Music", "Weekend breaks", "Art and design", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Turin, Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-27T13:43:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Top Gear is going to Sky. Not in the UK but a remake of the hit BBC motoring format for Sky Italia on its pay-TV entertainment channel, Sky Uno.Italy becomes the fifth overseas territory to adapt the show and the first since Jeremy Clarkson\u2019s axing following a fracas with a producer earlier this year.Top Gear Italia will be fronted by motoring journalist Guido Meda and Joe Bastianich, a well-known TV personality, restaurant entrepreneur and vintage car collector. A third presenter is still to be confirmed.Top Gear is one of the BBC\u2019s most valuable shows, making around \u00a350m a year for its commercial arm, BBC Worldwide.Tobi de Graaff, executive vice-president of Western Europe at BBC Worldwide, said: \u201cWe know that Top Gear already has a strong and established presence in Italy with the original UK series and the magazine proving hugely popular.\u201cAdding a local version to the mix in a country steeped in motoring history will be fantastic for Italian audiences.\u201d The Top Gear format has already been remade in the US, China, South Korea and France. The show is also broadcast in 212 territories globally. Related: BBC\u2019s Top Gear launches local version in China The show will return in the UK on BBC2 next year with an all-new lineup headed by Radio 2 breakfast DJ, Chris Evans.Tim Davie, chief executive of BBC Worldwide, said earlier this month that Evans would do a \u201cwonderful job\u201d of reinventing the show. The last episode of Top Gear featuring Clarkson and his fellow co-presenters, Richard Hammond and James May, aired on BBC2 last month, watched by more than 5 million viewers.The trio are expected to reunite with the show\u2019s former executive producer Andy Wilman on a rival broadcaster, but without the Top Gear name which is owned by the BBC.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Sky plc", "Media", "Top Gear", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Italy"], "title": "Top Gear remake to launch in Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-02T12:10:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": " Drive two hours from Ostuni, or 20 minutes south along the coast from Otranto, and you\u2019ll find hot thermal springs gushing from four caves \u2013 Gatulla, Solfurea, Fetida and Solfatara \u2013 along 500m of dramatic coastline near the pretty town of Santa Cesarea Terme. On the sea front, there are a couple of pizzerias and a year-round thermal bathing pool. Terme di Santa Cesarea health spa is also nearby. The whole coastline is rugged, with lots of undiscovered coves to swim in. Catherine Woodruff  Related: Unspoilt Italy: fall head over heel for Puglia's Salento region  Head to the little town of Castro, south of Lecce on the Adriatic coast, and hire a boat from one of the companies at the marina for a tour of the nearby natural caves. The biggest and most spectacular is the Zinzulusa grotto, which resembles a rocky mouth opening onto the sea. It is a maze of colourful stalactites and stalagmites and there\u2019s an internal lake. You can take a guided visit or just swim and snorkel off the boat outside the cave. nauticaredcoral.it canaria  If my favourite, the local speciality pezzetti te cavallu (a slow-cooked dish of tender horse meat in a tomato sauce) isn\u2019t quite your thing, Lecce osteria Alle Due Corti (Corte dei Giugni 1) also serves incredible stuffed aubergines, pasta and spring lamb. Wash it down with a drop of primitivo di manduria, Puglia\u2019s answer to zinfandel. They call Lecce the Florence of the south, but everything is more feisty, fleshy, scorched and fragrant.+39 0832-242223, alleduecorti.com amaliamercedes  Trani, 50km north of Bari, is home to one of the most beautiful buildings in southern Italy. The cathedral, built of soft white-pink limestone at the edge of Trani\u2019s marina, is a spectacular sight, perfect for photographers. Despite being relatively plain (by Italian ecclesiastical standards), the exterior rewards close examination with lovely decorative details \u2013 see if you can spot the elephant corbels. The interior is astonishingly bright and airy. After visiting, head to the marina for spaghetti scoglio and a glass of wine. chrisklee  Enjoy spumone, a Puglianese treat combining ice cream with sponge cake and liqueur. The best place we found to try it was Martinucci Caffetterie in the coastal town of Otranto (Via Lungomare 59). Next door is Dal Baffo, one of the best restaurants in town. They have special evenings with a set menu, paired with local wines and live music. Try local specialities such as smoked swordfish carpaccio, stuffed squid or the chef\u2019s orange cake. tekton23  In the first week of July (5-7) the rural village of Scorrano showcases breathtaking structures, some 36m high, which light up in honour of the town\u2019s patron, Santa Domenica. The festival has earned the title of Capitale Mondiale Delle Luminarie and is very popular, so it\u2019s a good idea to arrive early to avoid traffic queues \u2013 the city organises huge parking areas outside the village. santadomenicascorrano.it Yolandanda  The historical walled town of Otranto is worth visiting in its own right, to walk through cobbled streets, chill out on the beach or stroll around the harbour with a local panzerrotti (a sort of cheese-and-ham mini pizza) but it really becomes animated and lively during the week-long summer jazz festival, a not-for-profit affair held in the grounds of the castle overlooking the town (from 24 July in 2015). Open air and candle lit, the atmosphere and setting are amazing. TheCapeCrusaider  Martina Franca\u2019s outskirts may look grim but head to the Centro Storico (old town) and you\u2019ll find a delightful and fairly tourist-free, by contrast with Lecce, baroque centre that\u2019s lively of a summer evening. For a more interesting wine choice here, try negroamaro rather than primitivo. captaindiy  Monopoli doesn\u2019t get the same attention as other nearby towns like Polignano, Alberobello or Ostuni. It\u2019s perhaps less spectacular than those places \u2013 a town adored far more by knowing natives than by the tourist guides \u2013 but is well worth visiting for its narrow streets flowing around its delightful port and offers some truly outstanding seafood restaurants, as well as a beautiful cathedral. ID6679981  Related: The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips Stay in the hilltop town of Ostuni, a good base for exploring the region: it\u2019s attractive, has good restaurants and is central. Hill towns are rightly considered one of Puglia\u2019s glories, but the best are difficult for tourists with a car because of parking. Unforgettable (and easy to get to) is Egnazia, on the coast road near Monopoli. Egnazia was ancient when the Romans came, and it is well preserved in a sprawling site as evocative as Pompeii. ID2956150  With a bit of forward planning, it\u2019s possible to do a pretty comprehensive tour of Puglia by train. The peninsula\u2019s network takes in the unmissable ports of Otranto and Gallipoli, Bari and Brindisi, as well as the splendid inland towns of Lecce and Ostuni. Don\u2019t miss the line connecting Martina Franca, Locorotondo and Alberobello, which winds through flower-filled valleys where untouched Trulli houses are scattered through the olive groves. Trains rumble along in an unhurried fashion and some destinations are served infrequently, so allow a few days to make the most of this diverse region. trenitalia.com marthah", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Puglia, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "OverviewBy Jonathan Lee, author of the Wallpaper city guide to TurinTurin could be the blueprint for the post-industrial city of the future. Once Italy\u2019s manufacturing powerhouse, spearheaded by the mighty Fiat, the city expanded rapidly beyond its elegant heart of Paris-style boulevards throughout the 20th century. But by the 1980s, global competition had put the brakes on the city\u2019s economy: more than 100,000 workers lost their jobs and thriving factory districts withered to moribund hinterland. But since then this most pragmatic of Italian cities has chosen to invest and reinvent with gusto, carving out new cultural spaces, sprucing up old classics such as Museo Egizio and Del Cambio, and splurging on trams and metro trains. For proof, hop north of the centre to Parco Dora, a former factory district once whirring with the production lines of Fiat, Michelin and carpet manufacturer Paracchi. Now completely transformed, the park\u2019s centrepiece is a picked-clean skeleton of soaring girders, creating a vast space for kids to skate and scoot, play basketball and football, and turn out in their thousands for gigs and events such as Kappa FuturFestival. Head east to find Barriera di Milano, a once-deprived quarter now blooming with artists\u2019 studios and microbusinesses in places such as the 1912 warehouse complex Docks Dora, which is flanked by another showpiece reclamation project, Parco Aurelio Peccei. Just south of Barriera di Milano, in Aurora, lies the nascent Lavazza quarter, soon to house the coffee giant\u2019s new HQ, and down the road is cultural hub Fitzlab, artist collective Diogene and Teatro Espace. Hugging the other side of the Dora Riparia river in Vanchiglia is Foster + Partners\u2019 curvaceous new Campus Luigi Einaudi, while to the west in Borgo Dora is performance venue Cortile del Maglio and writing school Scuola Holden.Of course, Turin doesn\u2019t get it right every time. To the south, the Olympic Village\u2019s shopping complex is an abandoned shell, and while biking around this pancake-flat metropolis should be a breeze, the cycle network is patchy and you have to sign up in advance before you can pick up a bright yellow [TO]BIKE from one of the city\u2019s 116 docking stations. Related: Top 10 restaurants in Turin Also, it\u2019s important not to overlook two areas that have already \u201cup and come\u201d. The gentrifying southern district of San Salvario still offers the best bars and apericena in town, particularly around the crossroads of via Sant\u2019Anselmo and via Giuseppe Baretti. And a trip further south to Lingotto, home of the Fiat mothership, is a must, if only to relive scenes from The Italian Job on its service ramp. Here you can dine at slow food emporium Eataly and get even closer to the future inside Renzo Piano\u2019s ground-breaking \u201cbioclimatic\u201d (naturally ventilated and cooled) skyscraper, Intesa SanPaolo Tower, complete with rooftop greenhouse.By Giorgio Valletta, DJ and co-organiser of electronic music festival Club To ClubTurin has always been, in spirit, a laboratory. Half of Italy\u2019s best dance and electronic music is produced here. If you\u2019re coming for a weekend of spontaneous live music, you should definitely head for San Salvario or Vanchiglia. The latter quarter is more progressive and artistic, while San Salvario offers lots of intimate bars with live music and DJs. For me, Blah Blah is the de facto central venue. It\u2019s got a rock and indie identity but dips into disco and rave too. Hop east across the river Po to find Cap 10100, a new live rock spot attracting a younger crowd.I have a daily show called Primo Ascolto on Radio Flash and often head to San Salvario\u2019s Astoria to track down emerging international artists such as multi-faceted Canadian producer, singer and songwriter Grimes. Vaghe Stelle, Turin\u2019s leading electronica outfit, also plays here.In Lingotto, there\u2019s Hiroshima Mon Amour, a real institution based in a former school. It made its name by launching Torinesi rock, punk, reggae and pop acts before adding electronica to the mix. We have a very fertile local electronica scene and one of the most important festivals is TOdays, an August (28, 29, 30 in 2015) three-dayer with sPAZIO 211 as its key venue.Two other important festivals are October\u2019s Movement, which majors on house and techno, and Club To Club, my November festival, which attracted 40,000 people last year. We\u2019ve shifted away from DJs a tad towards live electronica and guests such as Four Tet, Todd Terje and Jamie xx.Another must is #raveon at Bunker in Barriera di Milano, an important club night running from September to June and organised by We Play the Music We Love.I think Turin always pushes the agenda musically, but there\u2019s also a hedonistic streak. It\u2019s this combination that makes Turin so different and inspiring.By Maurizio Bray, co-founder of food blog Torino by GNAM!, with chef Vassily AndrusyshynHistorically, the Piemontesi are introverts, but Turin is becoming more open, embracing organic wine and food, new ingredients such as lemongrass and ginger, and new international flavours.Although it\u2019s saturated, San Salvario is still the hotspot. I really like La Cuite (Via Baretti 11/G), a vineria and cocktail bar full of young people and serving tapas at reasonable prices. A few minutes around the corner is ORSO, a 2014 coffee \u201claboratory\u201d serving feisty arabica and robusta from around the globe. It\u2019s linked to artisan gelateria Mara dei Boschi (Via Berthollet 30/H) \u2013 try the mouthwatering, cream-free, marotto chocolate flavour.Traditional Piemontese cuisine is rich and filling, with dishes heavy on butter, truffles and broths. For agnolotti Piemontese and the like, head to Ristorante Monferrato (Via Monferrato 6), founded in the leafy surrounds of Borgo Po in 1820. Related: The foodie traveller in Turin, at the Slow Food festival Coming up, I see three big foodie trends in Turin. First, there\u2019s the rise of \u201cconscious cuisine\u201d: organic, vegetarian and gluten-free piatti served in light, bright eateries such as Belfood Cucina in San Salvario, (Via Belfiore 15) and the central Cristina Perino (Via Carlo Alberto 28).Secondly, there\u2019s an emergence of street food, catering for the city\u2019s growing university population. You can tuck into pane con la milza, a fried beef spleen sandwich from Sicily, at places such as Sole di Sicilia (Via Livorno 6). And thirdly, our food culture is becoming more international. For example, at Dora in Poi (Via Catania 21) in Vanchiglietta, the restaurant where Vassily and I work, all our base ingredients are Piemontese \u2013 such as rice, garlic and salmon \u2013 but we have created dishes with influences from northern Europe, Asia and South America, so you\u2019ll see plenty of ceviche, dim sum, ramen-style soup and quinoa. Vassily\u2019s minestrone di frutta verdura, tiny pieces of peach, pineapple and mango dotted with gianduja chocolate, has changed my life!I would say Vanchiglia will be Turin\u2019s key emerging quarter over the next couple of years. It used to be full of workshops, but the opening of Campus Luigi Einaudi has swept in places such as Pai Bikery, a bike workshop-cum-cafe serving brunches of fruit pancakes and excellent salads. My final recommendation is Magazzino 52, a contemporary enoteca (wine shop) opened this summer by Graziano Cipriano, serving trad-meets-international dishes and a bargain \u20ac20 fixed menu.Torino is really a big village with a provincial feel, but there is a niche for people with an appetite for something different. The pace of change is just slower than Milan: slow food, slow change.By Ginevra Pucci and Stefania Poddighe, co-founders of November art fair FlashbackThere\u2019s currently a trend among the young to open new spaces across the city. That said, Turin\u2019s creative scene is quite underground, so you have to seek out the best work. At its vanguard is the historic quarter of Barriera di Milano, which is being transformed by an influx of artists and galleries. The 2014 opening of Museo Ettore Fico has proved a tipping point. There\u2019s a small exhibition of Fico\u2019s vibrant landscapes, but where it really excels is in combining art and design with experimental theatre, dance and debates in a modern space. Close by there are lots of studios and galleries such as GAS, which champions local talents like sculptor Fabio Viale. South of here is Galleria Franco Noero, which shows mixed media work by Lara Favaretto and others.\u201cNext, I\u2019d recommend heading south-west to explore established creative hotspots such as Fondazione Merz, which is great for live music, and Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo, which works closely with young artists.Across the city, in Vanchiglia, you\u2019ll find affordable works at new galleries such as NOPX, which excels at photography, and at Van Der and Quartz, both strong on below-the-radar creatives. Just north over the river is cultural centre Cripta747, a hub for Italian curators and artists.Even the upmarket shopping and gallery district around via della Rocca offers surprises such as cool clothing store TAF, and it\u2019s always worth visiting Lingotto\u2019s expos to discover the next big thing in design.We hold our Flashback art fair \u2013 which explores historical and modern art in a contemporary way \u2013 in early November (5-8). The whole world comes to town that week because there\u2019s also the design festival Operae, art fairs Artissima and The Others, and emerging talent showcase Paratissima.It doesn\u2019t matter when art was made; it\u2019s all contemporary. It\u2019s the emotion that it prompts in us today that\u2019s the key.There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations - from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Turin. These are just a few with more here:Il Balon di Torino and Gelateria PopolareGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city. Hannah BrewEgyptian MuseumYou need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist. Rossi WritesMulassano Caf\u00e8Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try. Fabrizio Zanelli Related: Instagram snapshots: Turin through the eyes of locals Circolo dei lettorA great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture. Lucy SerlengaCulture, shopping, food and drinkTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars. Giorgia Pigato\u2022 Thanks to Fondazione Ordine Architetti Torino and Casa Filiberto for their guidance and support", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Restaurants", "Clubbing", "Music festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "Music", "Weekend breaks", "Art and design", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Turin, Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-27T13:43:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Top Gear is going to Sky. Not in the UK but a remake of the hit BBC motoring format for Sky Italia on its pay-TV entertainment channel, Sky Uno.Italy becomes the fifth overseas territory to adapt the show and the first since Jeremy Clarkson\u2019s axing following a fracas with a producer earlier this year.Top Gear Italia will be fronted by motoring journalist Guido Meda and Joe Bastianich, a well-known TV personality, restaurant entrepreneur and vintage car collector. A third presenter is still to be confirmed.Top Gear is one of the BBC\u2019s most valuable shows, making around \u00a350m a year for its commercial arm, BBC Worldwide.Tobi de Graaff, executive vice-president of Western Europe at BBC Worldwide, said: \u201cWe know that Top Gear already has a strong and established presence in Italy with the original UK series and the magazine proving hugely popular.\u201cAdding a local version to the mix in a country steeped in motoring history will be fantastic for Italian audiences.\u201d The Top Gear format has already been remade in the US, China, South Korea and France. The show is also broadcast in 212 territories globally. Related: BBC\u2019s Top Gear launches local version in China The show will return in the UK on BBC2 next year with an all-new lineup headed by Radio 2 breakfast DJ, Chris Evans.Tim Davie, chief executive of BBC Worldwide, said earlier this month that Evans would do a \u201cwonderful job\u201d of reinventing the show. The last episode of Top Gear featuring Clarkson and his fellow co-presenters, Richard Hammond and James May, aired on BBC2 last month, watched by more than 5 million viewers.The trio are expected to reunite with the show\u2019s former executive producer Andy Wilman on a rival broadcaster, but without the Top Gear name which is owned by the BBC.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Sky plc", "Media", "Top Gear", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Italy"], "title": "Top Gear remake to launch in Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-24T11:00:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "All of today\u2019s recipes \u2013 the third of our four-part series on Italian feasting \u2013 are cheap, healthy and vegan. Perhaps you think that doesn\u2019t sound like much of a feast. As Homer Simpson observed: \u201cYou don\u2019t win friends with salad.\u201dThe very word \u201cfeast\u201d summons up images of carnivorous excess: Obelix scronching his way through a heap of wild boar; whole oxen turning on Tudor spits; swans stuffed with songbirds and served to pomaded emperors.But some of us have neither the income nor the appetite of a Sun King. I don\u2019t actually enjoy feeling so overstuffed that my seams strain. I prefer my feasts plainer and less rich, leaving me room to breathe and chat.So this feast comes from the rustic, rather than regal, tradition. The recipes are all from Puglia, in the sharp heel of Italy\u2019s boot. A flat and fertile area largely given over to farming, it produces olive oil, pulses and durum wheat (used to make pasta) in abundance.The very word \u201cfeast\u201d summons up images of carnivorous excess: swans stuffed with songbirds, served to pomaded emperorsTeamed with Mediterranean vegetables \u2013 tomatoes, rocket, courgettes, fennel, peppers, onions \u2013 these simple ingredients can be turned into bold and beautiful dishes. They will make your guests swoon and guzzle, without breaking into a gouty sweat. Salad may not win you many friends, but trust me, chickpeas will.Traditionally, hard pasta was made only with flour and water. For the sake of speed, we have used the ready-made fresh pasta that you can buy in the supermarket, which usually contains eggs. Find an egg-free version if you want the meal to be fully vegan.Serves 6250g dried chickpeas, soaked overnight6 garlic cloves\u00bd leek\u00bd red onion2 cherry tomatoes1 small dried chilli1 sprig rosemary400g fresh tagliatelle150ml olive oil, for fryingSalt and black pepper1 Drain the chickpeas and place in a pan. Cover with water and add the garlic, leek, onion, tomato (don\u2019t chop) chilli and rosemary. Bring up to the boil and simmer for about an hour until the chickpeas are tender. Make sure the chickpeas are always covered with water.2 Remove the veg along with 100ml of liquor, discard the rosemary and blitz together the veg with the liquor in a food processor. Return to the pan and stir through the chickpeas. Season well. Related: A masterclass in northern Italian recipes | Feasting 3 Divide the tagliatelle roughly into three. Break it into shorter strips \u2013about 6cm long. Cook one third in lots of boiling salted water. Add another third to the chickpeas and simmer until just cooked, adding more water if necessary. Fry the final third in hot olive oil until the pasta pieces are crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen roll.4 Combine the cooked pasta with the chickpeas, adding a little extra water so it isn\u2019t dry. Season well and top with the fried, crisp pasta pieces before serving.N\u2019capriata or fave e cicoria, as it is known, is served with braised chicory and fried green peppers. Recipes can vary throughout the region, some having cooked mashed potato added to the puree. Below we are using padr\u00f3n peppers, chicory and chard.Serves 6250g dried, split and peeled broad beans (Hodmedod\u2019s are very good), soaked overnight5 whole garlic cloves, peeled100ml extra virgin olive oil, plus extra for drizzlingSalt and black pepper200g padr\u00f3n peppers2 tbsp olive oil for frying200g chard or spinach leaves, stalks removed1 tbsp olive oil1 garlic clove, crushedA pinch of dried chilli flakes1 Drain the beans and rinse well. Place in a large saucepan and cover with water. Add the whole garlic cloves and bring to a simmer. Cook over a low heat for about 40 minutes or until the beans are soft, making sure that they are always covered with water. Place in a colander or sieve and leave to drain for about 15 minutes.2 Transfer to a food processor with the whole garlic cloves, season well and blitz while adding the good olive oil until you have a smooth puree. You may need to add more oil \u2013 it depends how wet the beans are. Check the seasoning.3 Fry the peppers in a frying pan over a medium heat for about 3 minutes, until the skins are slightly charred and blistered. Sprinkle with salt.4 Blanch the chard or spinach in plenty of boiling salted water for a minute. Drain, refresh and squeeze out any excess water. Cook the crushed garlic clove and chilli for a minute in olive oil. Toss the cooked chard through the oil and season well.5 Serve the puree, drizzled with a little oil, with peppers, chicory and chard.Another great Italian dish using up stale bread \u2013 the chef Pietro Zito from Antichi Sapori, a restaurant near Andria, makes a great version.Serves 61 red onion, halved and thinly sliced1 tbsp good red wine vinegarA pinch of sugar200g cherry tomatoes, halved1 garlic clove, crushed1 cucumber, peeled, deseeded, cut into 4 lengthways and then into 1cm pieces2 tbsp chopped flat-leaf parsleyA pinch of dried oregano250g old sourdough or ciabatta, ripped into small pieces100ml waterExtra virgin olive oilSalt and black pepper1 Mix the onion with the vinegar and sugar and add a little salt. Set to one side for about 20 minutes.2 Mix the tomatoes with the onion, garlic, cucumber, parsley and oregano. Season well and coat with olive oil.3 Sprinkle the bread pieces with the water and fold through the vegetables. Drizzle with more oil and season again. Serve.\u2022 Henry Dimbleby is co-founder of the natural fast-food restaurant chain Leon. Twitter: @HenryDimbleby. Jane Baxter is a chef and food writer based in Devon. Twitter: @baxcooka", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Chefs", "Italian food and drink"], "title": "A vegan feast from southern Italy | Feasting"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "A great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture.Lucy SerlengaFrom the top of Mole Antonelliana, the architectural symbol of Turin, you have a stunning view of the city. If you are lucky and it\u2019s a clear day, you can see the Alps like a panoramic background wallpaper.Anekdotique Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try.Fabrizio ZanelliGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city.Hannah BrewThere are plenty of bars which offer aperitvo in San Salvario. You can get a glass of wine and access to a buffet of delicious Italian delicacies for around \u20ac5 on average. Most bars you\u2019ll stumble across will be good, however my favourites were: Soundart (also do live music on Wednesdays), Lanificio San Salvatore (killer Long Island Ice Teas) and Astoria. Biberon is also a great rum bar, with a pub feel and a token Tom Jones look-a-like.Amy FlynnThere\u2019s a place on the hills, just above the Gran Madre church, which is the perfect spot to look at the city from up high. It\u2019s close, so you can see every detail of Piazza Vittorio and the Mole, but it\u2019s also isolated and quiet. Visit in the winter and you\u2019ll love the amazing light displays put on every Christmas.Paola NavaWell worth a walk up the hill to get this view. Set off northwards from the Gran Madre church.Hannah BrewThis is an amazing castle in the heart of Parco del Valentino, in the middle of the city. It\u2019s home to the Politecnico di Milano, the university of architecture, but feel free to go in and get a coffee at the bar.VallinaThe Egyptian Museum is vast. You need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist.Rossi WritesTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars.Giorgia Pigato", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Turin, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-02T12:10:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": " Drive two hours from Ostuni, or 20 minutes south along the coast from Otranto, and you\u2019ll find hot thermal springs gushing from four caves \u2013 Gatulla, Solfurea, Fetida and Solfatara \u2013 along 500m of dramatic coastline near the pretty town of Santa Cesarea Terme. On the sea front, there are a couple of pizzerias and a year-round thermal bathing pool. Terme di Santa Cesarea health spa is also nearby. The whole coastline is rugged, with lots of undiscovered coves to swim in. Catherine Woodruff  Related: Unspoilt Italy: fall head over heel for Puglia's Salento region  Head to the little town of Castro, south of Lecce on the Adriatic coast, and hire a boat from one of the companies at the marina for a tour of the nearby natural caves. The biggest and most spectacular is the Zinzulusa grotto, which resembles a rocky mouth opening onto the sea. It is a maze of colourful stalactites and stalagmites and there\u2019s an internal lake. You can take a guided visit or just swim and snorkel off the boat outside the cave. nauticaredcoral.it canaria  If my favourite, the local speciality pezzetti te cavallu (a slow-cooked dish of tender horse meat in a tomato sauce) isn\u2019t quite your thing, Lecce osteria Alle Due Corti (Corte dei Giugni 1) also serves incredible stuffed aubergines, pasta and spring lamb. Wash it down with a drop of primitivo di manduria, Puglia\u2019s answer to zinfandel. They call Lecce the Florence of the south, but everything is more feisty, fleshy, scorched and fragrant.+39 0832-242223, alleduecorti.com amaliamercedes  Trani, 50km north of Bari, is home to one of the most beautiful buildings in southern Italy. The cathedral, built of soft white-pink limestone at the edge of Trani\u2019s marina, is a spectacular sight, perfect for photographers. Despite being relatively plain (by Italian ecclesiastical standards), the exterior rewards close examination with lovely decorative details \u2013 see if you can spot the elephant corbels. The interior is astonishingly bright and airy. After visiting, head to the marina for spaghetti scoglio and a glass of wine. chrisklee  Enjoy spumone, a Puglianese treat combining ice cream with sponge cake and liqueur. The best place we found to try it was Martinucci Caffetterie in the coastal town of Otranto (Via Lungomare 59). Next door is Dal Baffo, one of the best restaurants in town. They have special evenings with a set menu, paired with local wines and live music. Try local specialities such as smoked swordfish carpaccio, stuffed squid or the chef\u2019s orange cake. tekton23  In the first week of July (5-7) the rural village of Scorrano showcases breathtaking structures, some 36m high, which light up in honour of the town\u2019s patron, Santa Domenica. The festival has earned the title of Capitale Mondiale Delle Luminarie and is very popular, so it\u2019s a good idea to arrive early to avoid traffic queues \u2013 the city organises huge parking areas outside the village. santadomenicascorrano.it Yolandanda  The historical walled town of Otranto is worth visiting in its own right, to walk through cobbled streets, chill out on the beach or stroll around the harbour with a local panzerrotti (a sort of cheese-and-ham mini pizza) but it really becomes animated and lively during the week-long summer jazz festival, a not-for-profit affair held in the grounds of the castle overlooking the town (from 24 July in 2015). Open air and candle lit, the atmosphere and setting are amazing. TheCapeCrusaider  Martina Franca\u2019s outskirts may look grim but head to the Centro Storico (old town) and you\u2019ll find a delightful and fairly tourist-free, by contrast with Lecce, baroque centre that\u2019s lively of a summer evening. For a more interesting wine choice here, try negroamaro rather than primitivo. captaindiy  Monopoli doesn\u2019t get the same attention as other nearby towns like Polignano, Alberobello or Ostuni. It\u2019s perhaps less spectacular than those places \u2013 a town adored far more by knowing natives than by the tourist guides \u2013 but is well worth visiting for its narrow streets flowing around its delightful port and offers some truly outstanding seafood restaurants, as well as a beautiful cathedral. ID6679981  Related: The coastline of Italy: readers\u2019 travel tips Stay in the hilltop town of Ostuni, a good base for exploring the region: it\u2019s attractive, has good restaurants and is central. Hill towns are rightly considered one of Puglia\u2019s glories, but the best are difficult for tourists with a car because of parking. Unforgettable (and easy to get to) is Egnazia, on the coast road near Monopoli. Egnazia was ancient when the Romans came, and it is well preserved in a sprawling site as evocative as Pompeii. ID2956150  With a bit of forward planning, it\u2019s possible to do a pretty comprehensive tour of Puglia by train. The peninsula\u2019s network takes in the unmissable ports of Otranto and Gallipoli, Bari and Brindisi, as well as the splendid inland towns of Lecce and Ostuni. Don\u2019t miss the line connecting Martina Franca, Locorotondo and Alberobello, which winds through flower-filled valleys where untouched Trulli houses are scattered through the olive groves. Trains rumble along in an unhurried fashion and some destinations are served infrequently, so allow a few days to make the most of this diverse region. trenitalia.com marthah", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Puglia, Italy: readers' travel tips"},{"date": "2015-07-27T05:30:05Z", "country": "italy", "content": "OverviewBy Jonathan Lee, author of the Wallpaper city guide to TurinTurin could be the blueprint for the post-industrial city of the future. Once Italy\u2019s manufacturing powerhouse, spearheaded by the mighty Fiat, the city expanded rapidly beyond its elegant heart of Paris-style boulevards throughout the 20th century. But by the 1980s, global competition had put the brakes on the city\u2019s economy: more than 100,000 workers lost their jobs and thriving factory districts withered to moribund hinterland. But since then this most pragmatic of Italian cities has chosen to invest and reinvent with gusto, carving out new cultural spaces, sprucing up old classics such as Museo Egizio and Del Cambio, and splurging on trams and metro trains. For proof, hop north of the centre to Parco Dora, a former factory district once whirring with the production lines of Fiat, Michelin and carpet manufacturer Paracchi. Now completely transformed, the park\u2019s centrepiece is a picked-clean skeleton of soaring girders, creating a vast space for kids to skate and scoot, play basketball and football, and turn out in their thousands for gigs and events such as Kappa FuturFestival. Head east to find Barriera di Milano, a once-deprived quarter now blooming with artists\u2019 studios and microbusinesses in places such as the 1912 warehouse complex Docks Dora, which is flanked by another showpiece reclamation project, Parco Aurelio Peccei. Just south of Barriera di Milano, in Aurora, lies the nascent Lavazza quarter, soon to house the coffee giant\u2019s new HQ, and down the road is cultural hub Fitzlab, artist collective Diogene and Teatro Espace. Hugging the other side of the Dora Riparia river in Vanchiglia is Foster + Partners\u2019 curvaceous new Campus Luigi Einaudi, while to the west in Borgo Dora is performance venue Cortile del Maglio and writing school Scuola Holden.Of course, Turin doesn\u2019t get it right every time. To the south, the Olympic Village\u2019s shopping complex is an abandoned shell, and while biking around this pancake-flat metropolis should be a breeze, the cycle network is patchy and you have to sign up in advance before you can pick up a bright yellow [TO]BIKE from one of the city\u2019s 116 docking stations. Related: Top 10 restaurants in Turin Also, it\u2019s important not to overlook two areas that have already \u201cup and come\u201d. The gentrifying southern district of San Salvario still offers the best bars and apericena in town, particularly around the crossroads of via Sant\u2019Anselmo and via Giuseppe Baretti. And a trip further south to Lingotto, home of the Fiat mothership, is a must, if only to relive scenes from The Italian Job on its service ramp. Here you can dine at slow food emporium Eataly and get even closer to the future inside Renzo Piano\u2019s ground-breaking \u201cbioclimatic\u201d (naturally ventilated and cooled) skyscraper, Intesa SanPaolo Tower, complete with rooftop greenhouse.By Giorgio Valletta, DJ and co-organiser of electronic music festival Club To ClubTurin has always been, in spirit, a laboratory. Half of Italy\u2019s best dance and electronic music is produced here. If you\u2019re coming for a weekend of spontaneous live music, you should definitely head for San Salvario or Vanchiglia. The latter quarter is more progressive and artistic, while San Salvario offers lots of intimate bars with live music and DJs. For me, Blah Blah is the de facto central venue. It\u2019s got a rock and indie identity but dips into disco and rave too. Hop east across the river Po to find Cap 10100, a new live rock spot attracting a younger crowd.I have a daily show called Primo Ascolto on Radio Flash and often head to San Salvario\u2019s Astoria to track down emerging international artists such as multi-faceted Canadian producer, singer and songwriter Grimes. Vaghe Stelle, Turin\u2019s leading electronica outfit, also plays here.In Lingotto, there\u2019s Hiroshima Mon Amour, a real institution based in a former school. It made its name by launching Torinesi rock, punk, reggae and pop acts before adding electronica to the mix. We have a very fertile local electronica scene and one of the most important festivals is TOdays, an August (28, 29, 30 in 2015) three-dayer with sPAZIO 211 as its key venue.Two other important festivals are October\u2019s Movement, which majors on house and techno, and Club To Club, my November festival, which attracted 40,000 people last year. We\u2019ve shifted away from DJs a tad towards live electronica and guests such as Four Tet, Todd Terje and Jamie xx.Another must is #raveon at Bunker in Barriera di Milano, an important club night running from September to June and organised by We Play the Music We Love.I think Turin always pushes the agenda musically, but there\u2019s also a hedonistic streak. It\u2019s this combination that makes Turin so different and inspiring.By Maurizio Bray, co-founder of food blog Torino by GNAM!, with chef Vassily AndrusyshynHistorically, the Piemontesi are introverts, but Turin is becoming more open, embracing organic wine and food, new ingredients such as lemongrass and ginger, and new international flavours.Although it\u2019s saturated, San Salvario is still the hotspot. I really like La Cuite (Via Baretti 11/G), a vineria and cocktail bar full of young people and serving tapas at reasonable prices. A few minutes around the corner is ORSO, a 2014 coffee \u201claboratory\u201d serving feisty arabica and robusta from around the globe. It\u2019s linked to artisan gelateria Mara dei Boschi (Via Berthollet 30/H) \u2013 try the mouthwatering, cream-free, marotto chocolate flavour.Traditional Piemontese cuisine is rich and filling, with dishes heavy on butter, truffles and broths. For agnolotti Piemontese and the like, head to Ristorante Monferrato (Via Monferrato 6), founded in the leafy surrounds of Borgo Po in 1820. Related: The foodie traveller in Turin, at the Slow Food festival Coming up, I see three big foodie trends in Turin. First, there\u2019s the rise of \u201cconscious cuisine\u201d: organic, vegetarian and gluten-free piatti served in light, bright eateries such as Belfood Cucina in San Salvario, (Via Belfiore 15) and the central Cristina Perino (Via Carlo Alberto 28).Secondly, there\u2019s an emergence of street food, catering for the city\u2019s growing university population. You can tuck into pane con la milza, a fried beef spleen sandwich from Sicily, at places such as Sole di Sicilia (Via Livorno 6). And thirdly, our food culture is becoming more international. For example, at Dora in Poi (Via Catania 21) in Vanchiglietta, the restaurant where Vassily and I work, all our base ingredients are Piemontese \u2013 such as rice, garlic and salmon \u2013 but we have created dishes with influences from northern Europe, Asia and South America, so you\u2019ll see plenty of ceviche, dim sum, ramen-style soup and quinoa. Vassily\u2019s minestrone di frutta verdura, tiny pieces of peach, pineapple and mango dotted with gianduja chocolate, has changed my life!I would say Vanchiglia will be Turin\u2019s key emerging quarter over the next couple of years. It used to be full of workshops, but the opening of Campus Luigi Einaudi has swept in places such as Pai Bikery, a bike workshop-cum-cafe serving brunches of fruit pancakes and excellent salads. My final recommendation is Magazzino 52, a contemporary enoteca (wine shop) opened this summer by Graziano Cipriano, serving trad-meets-international dishes and a bargain \u20ac20 fixed menu.Torino is really a big village with a provincial feel, but there is a niche for people with an appetite for something different. The pace of change is just slower than Milan: slow food, slow change.By Ginevra Pucci and Stefania Poddighe, co-founders of November art fair FlashbackThere\u2019s currently a trend among the young to open new spaces across the city. That said, Turin\u2019s creative scene is quite underground, so you have to seek out the best work. At its vanguard is the historic quarter of Barriera di Milano, which is being transformed by an influx of artists and galleries. The 2014 opening of Museo Ettore Fico has proved a tipping point. There\u2019s a small exhibition of Fico\u2019s vibrant landscapes, but where it really excels is in combining art and design with experimental theatre, dance and debates in a modern space. Close by there are lots of studios and galleries such as GAS, which champions local talents like sculptor Fabio Viale. South of here is Galleria Franco Noero, which shows mixed media work by Lara Favaretto and others.\u201cNext, I\u2019d recommend heading south-west to explore established creative hotspots such as Fondazione Merz, which is great for live music, and Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo, which works closely with young artists.Across the city, in Vanchiglia, you\u2019ll find affordable works at new galleries such as NOPX, which excels at photography, and at Van Der and Quartz, both strong on below-the-radar creatives. Just north over the river is cultural centre Cripta747, a hub for Italian curators and artists.Even the upmarket shopping and gallery district around via della Rocca offers surprises such as cool clothing store TAF, and it\u2019s always worth visiting Lingotto\u2019s expos to discover the next big thing in design.We hold our Flashback art fair \u2013 which explores historical and modern art in a contemporary way \u2013 in early November (5-8). The whole world comes to town that week because there\u2019s also the design festival Operae, art fairs Artissima and The Others, and emerging talent showcase Paratissima.It doesn\u2019t matter when art was made; it\u2019s all contemporary. It\u2019s the emotion that it prompts in us today that\u2019s the key.There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations - from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Turin. These are just a few with more here:Il Balon di Torino and Gelateria PopolareGet up early and head down to the Balon behind the Piazza della Repubblica, or Porta Palazzo as it\u2019s more commonly known. It\u2019s a big flea market where you will find a treasure chest of knick-knacks, cheap second-hand and vintage clothes, paintings, electronics, furniture, bikes ... the list goes on. If you get tired of rummaging for bargains, stop for a break at Gelateria Popolare for the best ice-cream in the city. Hannah BrewEgyptian MuseumYou need several hours to explore its four floors and many exhibits \u2013 from the Book of the Dead to grave goods, and the myriad statues of all sizes. I also loved watching ancient carved figures and hieroglyphs being restored by a specialist. Rossi WritesMulassano Caf\u00e8Built in pure Art Nouveau style and opened in 1907, Mulassano is a little gem of a cafe with just a few tables (three inside plus four outside in spring and summer). Mulassano invented the \u201ctramezzino\u201d sandwich, similar to those you\u2019d find at an English afternoon tea, which every visitor should try. Fabrizio Zanelli Related: Instagram snapshots: Turin through the eyes of locals Circolo dei lettorA great building in the beautiful Palazzo Graneri della Roccia dedicated to the public for reading. Come to be inspired \u2013 by the beautiful artwork of the building, the antique furniture or the regular events and talks by authors and professional speakers. You must ring a bell and enter a code at the gates in the courtyard before entering, which heightens the sense of enchantment. It\u2019s the perfect spot in the city to indulge in Italian culture. Lucy SerlengaCulture, shopping, food and drinkTake a peek inside Palazzo Scaglia di Verrua \u2013 it\u2019s a gem, like most hidden courtyards in our palazzi. For shopping, go to Piazza Benefica market and grab discounted designer gear and other bargains. At night, check out the Jazz Club Torino in Piazza Valdo Fusi and the birreria next to it for amazing local beers. Look for the Maestro del Gusto (Master of Taste) sign of quality outside delicatessens, eateries and bars. Giorgia Pigato\u2022 Thanks to Fondazione Ordine Architetti Torino and Casa Filiberto for their guidance and support", "tags": ["Turin holidays", "Italy holidays", "Europe holidays", "Restaurants", "Clubbing", "Music festivals", "Culture", "Festivals", "Music", "Weekend breaks", "Art and design", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Turin, Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-27T13:43:33Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Top Gear is going to Sky. Not in the UK but a remake of the hit BBC motoring format for Sky Italia on its pay-TV entertainment channel, Sky Uno.Italy becomes the fifth overseas territory to adapt the show and the first since Jeremy Clarkson\u2019s axing following a fracas with a producer earlier this year.Top Gear Italia will be fronted by motoring journalist Guido Meda and Joe Bastianich, a well-known TV personality, restaurant entrepreneur and vintage car collector. A third presenter is still to be confirmed.Top Gear is one of the BBC\u2019s most valuable shows, making around \u00a350m a year for its commercial arm, BBC Worldwide.Tobi de Graaff, executive vice-president of Western Europe at BBC Worldwide, said: \u201cWe know that Top Gear already has a strong and established presence in Italy with the original UK series and the magazine proving hugely popular.\u201cAdding a local version to the mix in a country steeped in motoring history will be fantastic for Italian audiences.\u201d The Top Gear format has already been remade in the US, China, South Korea and France. The show is also broadcast in 212 territories globally. Related: BBC\u2019s Top Gear launches local version in China The show will return in the UK on BBC2 next year with an all-new lineup headed by Radio 2 breakfast DJ, Chris Evans.Tim Davie, chief executive of BBC Worldwide, said earlier this month that Evans would do a \u201cwonderful job\u201d of reinventing the show. The last episode of Top Gear featuring Clarkson and his fellow co-presenters, Richard Hammond and James May, aired on BBC2 last month, watched by more than 5 million viewers.The trio are expected to reunite with the show\u2019s former executive producer Andy Wilman on a rival broadcaster, but without the Top Gear name which is owned by the BBC.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Sky plc", "Media", "Top Gear", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Italy"], "title": "Top Gear remake to launch in Italy"},{"date": "2015-07-24T11:00:23Z", "country": "italy", "content": "All of today\u2019s recipes \u2013 the third of our four-part series on Italian feasting \u2013 are cheap, healthy and vegan. Perhaps you think that doesn\u2019t sound like much of a feast. As Homer Simpson observed: \u201cYou don\u2019t win friends with salad.\u201dThe very word \u201cfeast\u201d summons up images of carnivorous excess: Obelix scronching his way through a heap of wild boar; whole oxen turning on Tudor spits; swans stuffed with songbirds and served to pomaded emperors.But some of us have neither the income nor the appetite of a Sun King. I don\u2019t actually enjoy feeling so overstuffed that my seams strain. I prefer my feasts plainer and less rich, leaving me room to breathe and chat.So this feast comes from the rustic, rather than regal, tradition. The recipes are all from Puglia, in the sharp heel of Italy\u2019s boot. A flat and fertile area largely given over to farming, it produces olive oil, pulses and durum wheat (used to make pasta) in abundance.The very word \u201cfeast\u201d summons up images of carnivorous excess: swans stuffed with songbirds, served to pomaded emperorsTeamed with Mediterranean vegetables \u2013 tomatoes, rocket, courgettes, fennel, peppers, onions \u2013 these simple ingredients can be turned into bold and beautiful dishes. They will make your guests swoon and guzzle, without breaking into a gouty sweat. Salad may not win you many friends, but trust me, chickpeas will.Traditionally, hard pasta was made only with flour and water. For the sake of speed, we have used the ready-made fresh pasta that you can buy in the supermarket, which usually contains eggs. Find an egg-free version if you want the meal to be fully vegan.Serves 6250g dried chickpeas, soaked overnight6 garlic cloves\u00bd leek\u00bd red onion2 cherry tomatoes1 small dried chilli1 sprig rosemary400g fresh tagliatelle150ml olive oil, for fryingSalt and black pepper1 Drain the chickpeas and place in a pan. Cover with water and add the garlic, leek, onion, tomato (don\u2019t chop) chilli and rosemary. Bring up to the boil and simmer for about an hour until the chickpeas are tender. Make sure the chickpeas are always covered with water.2 Remove the veg along with 100ml of liquor, discard the rosemary and blitz together the veg with the liquor in a food processor. Return to the pan and stir through the chickpeas. Season well. Related: A masterclass in northern Italian recipes | Feasting 3 Divide the tagliatelle roughly into three. Break it into shorter strips \u2013about 6cm long. Cook one third in lots of boiling salted water. Add another third to the chickpeas and simmer until just cooked, adding more water if necessary. Fry the final third in hot olive oil until the pasta pieces are crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen roll.4 Combine the cooked pasta with the chickpeas, adding a little extra water so it isn\u2019t dry. Season well and top with the fried, crisp pasta pieces before serving.N\u2019capriata or fave e cicoria, as it is known, is served with braised chicory and fried green peppers. Recipes can vary throughout the region, some having cooked mashed potato added to the puree. Below we are using padr\u00f3n peppers, chicory and chard.Serves 6250g dried, split and peeled broad beans (Hodmedod\u2019s are very good), soaked overnight5 whole garlic cloves, peeled100ml extra virgin olive oil, plus extra for drizzlingSalt and black pepper200g padr\u00f3n peppers2 tbsp olive oil for frying200g chard or spinach leaves, stalks removed1 tbsp olive oil1 garlic clove, crushedA pinch of dried chilli flakes1 Drain the beans and rinse well. Place in a large saucepan and cover with water. Add the whole garlic cloves and bring to a simmer. Cook over a low heat for about 40 minutes or until the beans are soft, making sure that they are always covered with water. Place in a colander or sieve and leave to drain for about 15 minutes.2 Transfer to a food processor with the whole garlic cloves, season well and blitz while adding the good olive oil until you have a smooth puree. You may need to add more oil \u2013 it depends how wet the beans are. Check the seasoning.3 Fry the peppers in a frying pan over a medium heat for about 3 minutes, until the skins are slightly charred and blistered. Sprinkle with salt.4 Blanch the chard or spinach in plenty of boiling salted water for a minute. Drain, refresh and squeeze out any excess water. Cook the crushed garlic clove and chilli for a minute in olive oil. Toss the cooked chard through the oil and season well.5 Serve the puree, drizzled with a little oil, with peppers, chicory and chard.Another great Italian dish using up stale bread \u2013 the chef Pietro Zito from Antichi Sapori, a restaurant near Andria, makes a great version.Serves 61 red onion, halved and thinly sliced1 tbsp good red wine vinegarA pinch of sugar200g cherry tomatoes, halved1 garlic clove, crushed1 cucumber, peeled, deseeded, cut into 4 lengthways and then into 1cm pieces2 tbsp chopped flat-leaf parsleyA pinch of dried oregano250g old sourdough or ciabatta, ripped into small pieces100ml waterExtra virgin olive oilSalt and black pepper1 Mix the onion with the vinegar and sugar and add a little salt. Set to one side for about 20 minutes.2 Mix the tomatoes with the onion, garlic, cucumber, parsley and oregano. Season well and coat with olive oil.3 Sprinkle the bread pieces with the water and fold through the vegetables. Drizzle with more oil and season again. Serve.\u2022 Henry Dimbleby is co-founder of the natural fast-food restaurant chain Leon. Twitter: @HenryDimbleby. Jane Baxter is a chef and food writer based in Devon. Twitter: @baxcooka", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Chefs", "Italian food and drink"], "title": "A vegan feast from southern Italy | Feasting"},{"date": "2015-09-06T06:00:02Z", "country": "italy", "content": "You\u2019re familiar with red, white and ros\u00e9, but did you know about orange wine? First-time drinkers of it often get a shock. First there\u2019s the colour, that can range from deep amber through satsuma orange to dark pink. Don\u2019t be surprised if it is cloudy: that is par for the course. Then there\u2019s the taste. My first experience was of a sauvignon from Franco Terpin, an artisan winemaker in Friuli, north-east Italy. The process produces intense aromas and complex flavours, and I\u2019d never have guessed it was made with this grape.The difference in technique is quite simple. Normal white wine is made from the crushed juice of the grape, with the skins discarded. Orange winemakers retain the skins, as they would for red wine, and the fermenting grape juice is left to macerate with the skins, which add colour and tannin.  Related: Top 10 bike-friendly wine routes So don\u2019t expect this to taste like any other white wine you have drunk. It is almost like a craft-brewed mead, as the tannins create a honey, apricot flavour \u2013 smoky, spicy, a little bitter. Although orange wines are all the rage in fashionable wine bars and Michelin-starred restaurants, it is a technique that was used in antiquity, especially in Georgia and Armenia, where it has never gone out of favour.In Europe, the hot spot for orange wine is the Collio vineyards in Friuli and wineries across the border in Slovenia, but some winemakers in France and Germany are now experimenting, too.The guru of orange wine is Josko Gravner, who 15 years ago drove a lorry from his estate in Italy\u2019s Oslavia to Georgia to pick up the giant clay amphorae (for fermenting) that are now buried below his cellar. Josko does not often receive visitors however, and a better bet is to cross into Slovenia to Medana and visit Aleks Klinec, who is not only a great winemaker but runs a restaurant and cosy B&B.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Slovenia holidays", "Wine holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "The foodie traveller \u2026 drinks orange wine in Italy and Slovenia"},{"date": "2015-12-19T07:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The aperitivo is an old and civilised Italian custom, particularly in the north \u2013 a way of rounding off the working day by gathering in a bar for drinks and nibbles before heading home for dinner. Some bar owners offer more than just nuts and olives but, basically, the custom belongs to an old-style Italy, where mamma\u2019s food is best and the family gathers round her table each night. Related: 10 of the best places to stay in Italy for foodies But that is changing: mamma may be out at work herself, rather than in the kitchen hand-rolling tortelloni. In the past few years, starting in Milan and Turin, a new twist on the custom caters for students and a younger crowd \u2013 who perhaps don\u2019t have the funds for a restaurant dinner, or the time to go home and eat before hitting the clubs. This is the apericena (formed by adding cena \u2013 dinner \u2013 to aperitivo).Bars started offering a buffet of homemade hot and cold dishes with evening drinks \u2013 substantial enough to constitute a light dinner \u2013 at a relatively light price \u2013 often \u20ac10 for one drink and the buffet. High-end spots, with a great view or setting, say, rarely charge more than \u20ac20. Now, to the consternation of traditional restaurateurs, apericena joints have sprung up in many university cities \u2013 in Pisa, Florence, Bologna and Padua.Crostini, bruschette, salads, roasted vegetables, cured meats, baked pastas, risottos and hot and cold meat and fish dishes, plus desserts from tarts to ice-creams, make satisfying and affordable fuel for a night on the tiles. Related: Elena Ferrante\u2019s Ischia: an Italian island paradise In Milan, apericena\u2019s spiritual home, the Exotic restaurant and bar, a short walk from the university, makes a feature of it on Monday nights, with a \u20ac10 buffet of salads, pastas, meats and vegetable dishes. At 10pm it is replaced by a dessert buffet: nutella-stuffed pastries, ice-cream and fruit. In Turin, those in the know make for studenty, cinema-themed Lobelix Cafe on Via Corte d\u2019Appello. It\u2019s decorated with old film posters and strips of film, and \u20ac11 buys a drink (aperitif, glass of wine or draught beer) plus unlimited visits to the buffet of pasta, veg, meat and fish dishes \u2013 with glass covers to keep everything fresh and appetising. Food can be eaten on the closed-in terrace with views of the eponymous obelisk in Piazza Savoia.Visitors to Italy\u2019s tourist meccas can also enjoy the trend: studenty areas are the best bet. In Florence, Kitsch bar on Viale Gramsci is as ornate as the name suggests, and does a generous buffet of pastas and meat and veg dishes, plus fruit and cake (\u20ac10 for first drink, subsequent drinks \u20ac4). It\u2019s mostly Tuscan food, but does occasional themed nights, such as Mexican. There is another branch, Kitsch Devx, near the station.Apericena is harder to find in the south, but Bar Pappagallo (via Anastasio II 45), behind the Vatican gardens in Rome, does an amazing value one for \u20ac8 every night until 10pm, with a cocktail, beer or wine, plus risottos, house-made pasta, veg, cold meats and cheese, and tasty nibbles like arancini.And from this winter, you don\u2019t even have to go to Italy for an apericena: northern wine bar chain Veeno does an unlimited buffet of Italian food (\u00a37 for first drink) every Wednesday in its Manchester, York and Leeds branches.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Italy embraces apericena: the student supper"},{"date": "2015-12-19T07:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The aperitivo is an old and civilised Italian custom, particularly in the north \u2013 a way of rounding off the working day by gathering in a bar for drinks and nibbles before heading home for dinner. Some bar owners offer more than just nuts and olives but, basically, the custom belongs to an old-style Italy, where mamma\u2019s food is best and the family gathers round her table each night. Related: 10 of the best places to stay in Italy for foodies But that is changing: mamma may be out at work herself, rather than in the kitchen hand-rolling tortelloni. In the past few years, starting in Milan and Turin, a new twist on the custom caters for students and a younger crowd \u2013 who perhaps don\u2019t have the funds for a restaurant dinner, or the time to go home and eat before hitting the clubs. This is the apericena (formed by adding cena \u2013 dinner \u2013 to aperitivo).Bars started offering a buffet of homemade hot and cold dishes with evening drinks \u2013 substantial enough to constitute a light dinner \u2013 at a relatively light price \u2013 often \u20ac10 for one drink and the buffet. High-end spots, with a great view or setting, say, rarely charge more than \u20ac20. Now, to the consternation of traditional restaurateurs, apericena joints have sprung up in many university cities \u2013 in Pisa, Florence, Bologna and Padua.Crostini, bruschette, salads, roasted vegetables, cured meats, baked pastas, risottos and hot and cold meat and fish dishes, plus desserts from tarts to ice-creams, make satisfying and affordable fuel for a night on the tiles. Related: Elena Ferrante\u2019s Ischia: an Italian island paradise In Milan, apericena\u2019s spiritual home, the Exotic restaurant and bar, a short walk from the university, makes a feature of it on Monday nights, with a \u20ac10 buffet of salads, pastas, meats and vegetable dishes. At 10pm it is replaced by a dessert buffet: nutella-stuffed pastries, ice-cream and fruit. In Turin, those in the know make for studenty, cinema-themed Lobelix Cafe on Via Corte d\u2019Appello. It\u2019s decorated with old film posters and strips of film, and \u20ac11 buys a drink (aperitif, glass of wine or draught beer) plus unlimited visits to the buffet of pasta, veg, meat and fish dishes \u2013 with glass covers to keep everything fresh and appetising. Food can be eaten on the closed-in terrace with views of the eponymous obelisk in Piazza Savoia.Visitors to Italy\u2019s tourist meccas can also enjoy the trend: studenty areas are the best bet. In Florence, Kitsch bar on Viale Gramsci is as ornate as the name suggests, and does a generous buffet of pastas and meat and veg dishes, plus fruit and cake (\u20ac10 for first drink, subsequent drinks \u20ac4). It\u2019s mostly Tuscan food, but does occasional themed nights, such as Mexican. There is another branch, Kitsch Devx, near the station.Apericena is harder to find in the south, but Bar Pappagallo (via Anastasio II 45), behind the Vatican gardens in Rome, does an amazing value one for \u20ac8 every night until 10pm, with a cocktail, beer or wine, plus risottos, house-made pasta, veg, cold meats and cheese, and tasty nibbles like arancini.And from this winter, you don\u2019t even have to go to Italy for an apericena: northern wine bar chain Veeno does an unlimited buffet of Italian food (\u00a37 for first drink) every Wednesday in its Manchester, York and Leeds branches.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Italy embraces apericena: the student supper"},{"date": "2015-10-15T17:05:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a series of business-friendly tax cuts and measures to boost consumer spending that could put Rome in breach of austerity budget rules set by Brussels.Prime minister Matteo Renzi said a reduction in the main corporation tax rate and reduced levies on agricultural and industrial equipment were aimed at supporting Italy\u2019s fragile recovery.Putting forward a budget for next year on the last day of a deadline set by the EU commission, Renzi said \u20ac5bn (\u00a33.7bn) of tax cuts would include the abolition of a wealth tax on the main residence of all Italians, worth around \u20ac200 a year to most homeowners.The 40-year old said the package would make Italy \u201ca simpler and fairer country\u201d, adding: \u201cThis year not only are the taxes not going up but they are coming down.\u201dThe proposals will now go before parliament, where they must be approved by the end of the year. However, the budget must also be approved by Brussels, which only last week warned the rightwing government of Mariano Rajoy in Spain that proposals to relax austerity measures in its 2016 budget could be rejected.New fiscal rules, adopted after the eurozone debt crisis, give the European commission power to seek amendments to national budgets.Renzi, who has made tax cuts a rallying cry ever since he came to office in February last year, appears to be prepared for a fight against the Brussels elite that wants Italy to take the opportunity of its recent recovery to step up fiscal tightening.Alessandro Zattoni, an economics professor at the LUISS business school in Rome, said the EU commission is concerned that the deterioration in world trade following the slowdown in China could hurt the Italian economy, hitting tax revenues and further widening the budget deficit.Last month, the government increased its target for 2016\u2019s deficit to 2.2% of output, up from 1.8%, and said it expected the national debt to hit 131.4% of national income (GDP), up from a previous forecast of 130.9%. Renzi said that nonetheless, the debt-to-GDP ratio would begin to fall next year for the first time in nine years, and said other countries that were critical of Italy did not themselves respect the EU\u2019s fiscal rules. Zattoni said Brussels was likely to give Renzi a fair hearing after he imposed stringent austerity measures last year and was forced to increase spending this year to cope with the refugee crisis.\u201cIt is about the feeling in Brussels. And I think that has improved after a series of reforms and Renzi\u2019s handling of the refugee situation,\u201d he said.\u201cBut Brussels will want to keep an eye on Rome because it is concerned that the economy and the budget could be vulnerable to a deterioration in global trade.\u201dHe said business-friendly tax cuts and reforms were good news for the business community and especially entrepreneurs, which have struggled against a tax system that can sometimes charge more than 100% of profits.Reforms to the pension system, allowing older workers to work part-time while drawing their pension, could also free up jobs for younger workers, he said.A tax break for employers who hire staff on unlimited contracts will be continued, although the benefit to employers could be cut after it proved hugely successful.The government ams to limit the growth in short-term contracts that have played a dominant role since the financial crash but have also left millions of younger workers on low pay with little job security.", "tags": ["Austerity", "Eurozone", "Italy", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Economics"], "title": "Italy budget: Renzi risks Brussels battle"},{"date": "2015-12-19T07:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The aperitivo is an old and civilised Italian custom, particularly in the north \u2013 a way of rounding off the working day by gathering in a bar for drinks and nibbles before heading home for dinner. Some bar owners offer more than just nuts and olives but, basically, the custom belongs to an old-style Italy, where mamma\u2019s food is best and the family gathers round her table each night. Related: 10 of the best places to stay in Italy for foodies But that is changing: mamma may be out at work herself, rather than in the kitchen hand-rolling tortelloni. In the past few years, starting in Milan and Turin, a new twist on the custom caters for students and a younger crowd \u2013 who perhaps don\u2019t have the funds for a restaurant dinner, or the time to go home and eat before hitting the clubs. This is the apericena (formed by adding cena \u2013 dinner \u2013 to aperitivo).Bars started offering a buffet of homemade hot and cold dishes with evening drinks \u2013 substantial enough to constitute a light dinner \u2013 at a relatively light price \u2013 often \u20ac10 for one drink and the buffet. High-end spots, with a great view or setting, say, rarely charge more than \u20ac20. Now, to the consternation of traditional restaurateurs, apericena joints have sprung up in many university cities \u2013 in Pisa, Florence, Bologna and Padua.Crostini, bruschette, salads, roasted vegetables, cured meats, baked pastas, risottos and hot and cold meat and fish dishes, plus desserts from tarts to ice-creams, make satisfying and affordable fuel for a night on the tiles. Related: Elena Ferrante\u2019s Ischia: an Italian island paradise In Milan, apericena\u2019s spiritual home, the Exotic restaurant and bar, a short walk from the university, makes a feature of it on Monday nights, with a \u20ac10 buffet of salads, pastas, meats and vegetable dishes. At 10pm it is replaced by a dessert buffet: nutella-stuffed pastries, ice-cream and fruit. In Turin, those in the know make for studenty, cinema-themed Lobelix Cafe on Via Corte d\u2019Appello. It\u2019s decorated with old film posters and strips of film, and \u20ac11 buys a drink (aperitif, glass of wine or draught beer) plus unlimited visits to the buffet of pasta, veg, meat and fish dishes \u2013 with glass covers to keep everything fresh and appetising. Food can be eaten on the closed-in terrace with views of the eponymous obelisk in Piazza Savoia.Visitors to Italy\u2019s tourist meccas can also enjoy the trend: studenty areas are the best bet. In Florence, Kitsch bar on Viale Gramsci is as ornate as the name suggests, and does a generous buffet of pastas and meat and veg dishes, plus fruit and cake (\u20ac10 for first drink, subsequent drinks \u20ac4). It\u2019s mostly Tuscan food, but does occasional themed nights, such as Mexican. There is another branch, Kitsch Devx, near the station.Apericena is harder to find in the south, but Bar Pappagallo (via Anastasio II 45), behind the Vatican gardens in Rome, does an amazing value one for \u20ac8 every night until 10pm, with a cocktail, beer or wine, plus risottos, house-made pasta, veg, cold meats and cheese, and tasty nibbles like arancini.And from this winter, you don\u2019t even have to go to Italy for an apericena: northern wine bar chain Veeno does an unlimited buffet of Italian food (\u00a37 for first drink) every Wednesday in its Manchester, York and Leeds branches.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Italy embraces apericena: the student supper"},{"date": "2015-10-15T17:05:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a series of business-friendly tax cuts and measures to boost consumer spending that could put Rome in breach of austerity budget rules set by Brussels.Prime minister Matteo Renzi said a reduction in the main corporation tax rate and reduced levies on agricultural and industrial equipment were aimed at supporting Italy\u2019s fragile recovery.Putting forward a budget for next year on the last day of a deadline set by the EU commission, Renzi said \u20ac5bn (\u00a33.7bn) of tax cuts would include the abolition of a wealth tax on the main residence of all Italians, worth around \u20ac200 a year to most homeowners.The 40-year old said the package would make Italy \u201ca simpler and fairer country\u201d, adding: \u201cThis year not only are the taxes not going up but they are coming down.\u201dThe proposals will now go before parliament, where they must be approved by the end of the year. However, the budget must also be approved by Brussels, which only last week warned the rightwing government of Mariano Rajoy in Spain that proposals to relax austerity measures in its 2016 budget could be rejected.New fiscal rules, adopted after the eurozone debt crisis, give the European commission power to seek amendments to national budgets.Renzi, who has made tax cuts a rallying cry ever since he came to office in February last year, appears to be prepared for a fight against the Brussels elite that wants Italy to take the opportunity of its recent recovery to step up fiscal tightening.Alessandro Zattoni, an economics professor at the LUISS business school in Rome, said the EU commission is concerned that the deterioration in world trade following the slowdown in China could hurt the Italian economy, hitting tax revenues and further widening the budget deficit.Last month, the government increased its target for 2016\u2019s deficit to 2.2% of output, up from 1.8%, and said it expected the national debt to hit 131.4% of national income (GDP), up from a previous forecast of 130.9%. Renzi said that nonetheless, the debt-to-GDP ratio would begin to fall next year for the first time in nine years, and said other countries that were critical of Italy did not themselves respect the EU\u2019s fiscal rules. Zattoni said Brussels was likely to give Renzi a fair hearing after he imposed stringent austerity measures last year and was forced to increase spending this year to cope with the refugee crisis.\u201cIt is about the feeling in Brussels. And I think that has improved after a series of reforms and Renzi\u2019s handling of the refugee situation,\u201d he said.\u201cBut Brussels will want to keep an eye on Rome because it is concerned that the economy and the budget could be vulnerable to a deterioration in global trade.\u201dHe said business-friendly tax cuts and reforms were good news for the business community and especially entrepreneurs, which have struggled against a tax system that can sometimes charge more than 100% of profits.Reforms to the pension system, allowing older workers to work part-time while drawing their pension, could also free up jobs for younger workers, he said.A tax break for employers who hire staff on unlimited contracts will be continued, although the benefit to employers could be cut after it proved hugely successful.The government ams to limit the growth in short-term contracts that have played a dominant role since the financial crash but have also left millions of younger workers on low pay with little job security.", "tags": ["Austerity", "Eurozone", "Italy", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Economics"], "title": "Italy budget: Renzi risks Brussels battle"},{"date": "2015-12-01T18:16:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is facing a diplomatic collision with the Vatican over the church\u2019s prosecution of two Italian journalists in a case that has been broadly condemned by press freedom groups.A media watchdog that chronicles acts of intimidation against Italian journalists said Italy would have the legal right to reject any attempt by the Vatican to seek the extradition of the two journalists \u2013 Gianluigi Nuzzi and Emiliano Fittipaldi \u2013 if the pair are found guilty by a Vatican court of publishing classified and leaked documents.The trial of the journalists and three former Vatican officials \u2013 who have been charged with leaking the documents \u2013 will continue next week after being adjourned on Monday. The journalists technically face up to eight years in jail if they are convicted. Related: Vatileaks: media groups condemn Vatican as first hearing takes place \u201cItaly very easily should and could refuse any extradition request because we have an article in our penal code that says such a request can be refused if the alleged \u2018crime\u2019 the person has been charged with is itself against the paramount principles of Italian law,\u201d said Alberto Spampinato, a journalist and founder of the NGO Ossigeno per l\u2019Informazione (Oxygen for information).Another expert, Professor Giulio Illuminati of LUISS in Rome, said there was no legal framework for the Vatican to seek the journalists\u2019 extradition because the Vatican does not have an extradition agreement with Italy. Illuminati also noted that Italy could question the fairness of the trial since the Vatican is not a signatory to the European convention on human rights.The Vatican charged Nuzzi and Fittipaldi just weeks after both journalists released books that contained embarrassing allegations about financial mismanagement of Vatican funds. The Vatican \u2013 a sovereign city-state within the city of Rome \u2013 has not disputed any facts contained in the books, but the pair are being charged under a law that was passed under Pope Francis in 2013 that makes it a crime to leak or publish classified documents. In Italy there are a number of laws that protect journalists\u2019 right to publish controversial information. While it can be illegal to publish information contained in classified documents, Spampinato said that a journalist in Italy would only be charged with a crime if the publication of a leaked document was deemed a threat to national security.Article 21 of Italy\u2019s constitution also protects freedom of speech and expression. Although the case has received attention from various press freedom groups, the Italian government has so far been silent on the charges against the Italian journalists.\u201cThe government is being very prudent, like looking on from a window at what is happening. The relations between Italy and the Holy See are very diplomatic and regulated by law,\u201d said Spampinato.The silence of Italy\u2019s political leaders has been heavily criticised by one prominent voice: Ezio Mauro, the longtime editor-in-chief of the Italian daily newspaper la Repubblica. Related: 'Vatileaks' scandal a 'battle between good and evil' in the Catholic church \u201cWe haven\u2019t heard the voice of one politician,\u201d Mauro said in his morning news conference, which is published online. \u201cMaybe politicians should say something: maybe the PD [the ruling Democratic Party] should raise its head from the small-bore cannibalistic intestinal squabbles that it envelops itself in every day. The prime minister should give us his opinion, and the justice minister should say a word.\u201dThe influential editor also pointed an accusatory finger at the pope himself, suggesting it was impossible to reform the Vatican into a more transparent institution, as Pope Francis has said, if journalists are punished for doing their jobs.\u201cYou can\u2019t practise transparency and freedom and then put on trial not those who are the authors of bad government and misuse of the Holy See\u2019s finances but the journalists who exposed what is rotten in the Vatican,\u201d Mauro said.Following their indictment on criminal charges last month, both journalists willingly attended their first hearing inside the Vatican walls. They are not being held within the city-state. The journalists have noted some irregularities involving their trial, including the fact that neither were given documents about the charges against them until the day of the first hearing.The Vatican has insisted that it is not seeking to target speech by prosecuting the journalists. \u201cThe trial is not about liberty and freedom of journalism. Criminal activities are criminal,\u201d said Thomas Rosica, a Vatican spokesman.But there is little available information about the precise nature of the crime the journalists have been accused of. Fittipaldi has sought to have charges against him dropped because Vatican prosecutors have not detailed which classified documents he is alleged to have used.\u201cWe are waiting and hoping that something will happen that will make the situation clearer for the journalists,\u201d said Spampinato.Giulia Bongiorno, a well-known Italian defence lawyer who is representing Francesca Chaouqui, a public relations official who formerly worked for the Vatican and was charged with leaking confidential documents, said the fundamental rights of her client were being \u201cseriously infringed\u201d. Bongiorno was barred from representing her client inside the Vatican courtroom because she was not approved by the Vatican.\u201cThe execution in Italy of the criminal conviction would not be allowed since the Vatican procedure has been unlawful and partially in breach of the rules governing a due process of law,\u201d Bongiorno told the Guardian.", "tags": ["Vatican", "Italy", "World news", "Journalist safety", "Human rights", "Media law", "Catholicism", "Pope Francis"], "title": "Vatican set for diplomatic clash with Italy over 'Vatileaks' prosecution"},{"date": "2015-12-19T07:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The aperitivo is an old and civilised Italian custom, particularly in the north \u2013 a way of rounding off the working day by gathering in a bar for drinks and nibbles before heading home for dinner. Some bar owners offer more than just nuts and olives but, basically, the custom belongs to an old-style Italy, where mamma\u2019s food is best and the family gathers round her table each night. Related: 10 of the best places to stay in Italy for foodies But that is changing: mamma may be out at work herself, rather than in the kitchen hand-rolling tortelloni. In the past few years, starting in Milan and Turin, a new twist on the custom caters for students and a younger crowd \u2013 who perhaps don\u2019t have the funds for a restaurant dinner, or the time to go home and eat before hitting the clubs. This is the apericena (formed by adding cena \u2013 dinner \u2013 to aperitivo).Bars started offering a buffet of homemade hot and cold dishes with evening drinks \u2013 substantial enough to constitute a light dinner \u2013 at a relatively light price \u2013 often \u20ac10 for one drink and the buffet. High-end spots, with a great view or setting, say, rarely charge more than \u20ac20. Now, to the consternation of traditional restaurateurs, apericena joints have sprung up in many university cities \u2013 in Pisa, Florence, Bologna and Padua.Crostini, bruschette, salads, roasted vegetables, cured meats, baked pastas, risottos and hot and cold meat and fish dishes, plus desserts from tarts to ice-creams, make satisfying and affordable fuel for a night on the tiles. Related: Elena Ferrante\u2019s Ischia: an Italian island paradise In Milan, apericena\u2019s spiritual home, the Exotic restaurant and bar, a short walk from the university, makes a feature of it on Monday nights, with a \u20ac10 buffet of salads, pastas, meats and vegetable dishes. At 10pm it is replaced by a dessert buffet: nutella-stuffed pastries, ice-cream and fruit. In Turin, those in the know make for studenty, cinema-themed Lobelix Cafe on Via Corte d\u2019Appello. It\u2019s decorated with old film posters and strips of film, and \u20ac11 buys a drink (aperitif, glass of wine or draught beer) plus unlimited visits to the buffet of pasta, veg, meat and fish dishes \u2013 with glass covers to keep everything fresh and appetising. Food can be eaten on the closed-in terrace with views of the eponymous obelisk in Piazza Savoia.Visitors to Italy\u2019s tourist meccas can also enjoy the trend: studenty areas are the best bet. In Florence, Kitsch bar on Viale Gramsci is as ornate as the name suggests, and does a generous buffet of pastas and meat and veg dishes, plus fruit and cake (\u20ac10 for first drink, subsequent drinks \u20ac4). It\u2019s mostly Tuscan food, but does occasional themed nights, such as Mexican. There is another branch, Kitsch Devx, near the station.Apericena is harder to find in the south, but Bar Pappagallo (via Anastasio II 45), behind the Vatican gardens in Rome, does an amazing value one for \u20ac8 every night until 10pm, with a cocktail, beer or wine, plus risottos, house-made pasta, veg, cold meats and cheese, and tasty nibbles like arancini.And from this winter, you don\u2019t even have to go to Italy for an apericena: northern wine bar chain Veeno does an unlimited buffet of Italian food (\u00a37 for first drink) every Wednesday in its Manchester, York and Leeds branches.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Italy embraces apericena: the student supper"},{"date": "2015-10-15T17:05:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a series of business-friendly tax cuts and measures to boost consumer spending that could put Rome in breach of austerity budget rules set by Brussels.Prime minister Matteo Renzi said a reduction in the main corporation tax rate and reduced levies on agricultural and industrial equipment were aimed at supporting Italy\u2019s fragile recovery.Putting forward a budget for next year on the last day of a deadline set by the EU commission, Renzi said \u20ac5bn (\u00a33.7bn) of tax cuts would include the abolition of a wealth tax on the main residence of all Italians, worth around \u20ac200 a year to most homeowners.The 40-year old said the package would make Italy \u201ca simpler and fairer country\u201d, adding: \u201cThis year not only are the taxes not going up but they are coming down.\u201dThe proposals will now go before parliament, where they must be approved by the end of the year. However, the budget must also be approved by Brussels, which only last week warned the rightwing government of Mariano Rajoy in Spain that proposals to relax austerity measures in its 2016 budget could be rejected.New fiscal rules, adopted after the eurozone debt crisis, give the European commission power to seek amendments to national budgets.Renzi, who has made tax cuts a rallying cry ever since he came to office in February last year, appears to be prepared for a fight against the Brussels elite that wants Italy to take the opportunity of its recent recovery to step up fiscal tightening.Alessandro Zattoni, an economics professor at the LUISS business school in Rome, said the EU commission is concerned that the deterioration in world trade following the slowdown in China could hurt the Italian economy, hitting tax revenues and further widening the budget deficit.Last month, the government increased its target for 2016\u2019s deficit to 2.2% of output, up from 1.8%, and said it expected the national debt to hit 131.4% of national income (GDP), up from a previous forecast of 130.9%. Renzi said that nonetheless, the debt-to-GDP ratio would begin to fall next year for the first time in nine years, and said other countries that were critical of Italy did not themselves respect the EU\u2019s fiscal rules. Zattoni said Brussels was likely to give Renzi a fair hearing after he imposed stringent austerity measures last year and was forced to increase spending this year to cope with the refugee crisis.\u201cIt is about the feeling in Brussels. And I think that has improved after a series of reforms and Renzi\u2019s handling of the refugee situation,\u201d he said.\u201cBut Brussels will want to keep an eye on Rome because it is concerned that the economy and the budget could be vulnerable to a deterioration in global trade.\u201dHe said business-friendly tax cuts and reforms were good news for the business community and especially entrepreneurs, which have struggled against a tax system that can sometimes charge more than 100% of profits.Reforms to the pension system, allowing older workers to work part-time while drawing their pension, could also free up jobs for younger workers, he said.A tax break for employers who hire staff on unlimited contracts will be continued, although the benefit to employers could be cut after it proved hugely successful.The government ams to limit the growth in short-term contracts that have played a dominant role since the financial crash but have also left millions of younger workers on low pay with little job security.", "tags": ["Austerity", "Eurozone", "Italy", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Economics"], "title": "Italy budget: Renzi risks Brussels battle"},{"date": "2015-12-01T18:16:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is facing a diplomatic collision with the Vatican over the church\u2019s prosecution of two Italian journalists in a case that has been broadly condemned by press freedom groups.A media watchdog that chronicles acts of intimidation against Italian journalists said Italy would have the legal right to reject any attempt by the Vatican to seek the extradition of the two journalists \u2013 Gianluigi Nuzzi and Emiliano Fittipaldi \u2013 if the pair are found guilty by a Vatican court of publishing classified and leaked documents.The trial of the journalists and three former Vatican officials \u2013 who have been charged with leaking the documents \u2013 will continue next week after being adjourned on Monday. The journalists technically face up to eight years in jail if they are convicted. Related: Vatileaks: media groups condemn Vatican as first hearing takes place \u201cItaly very easily should and could refuse any extradition request because we have an article in our penal code that says such a request can be refused if the alleged \u2018crime\u2019 the person has been charged with is itself against the paramount principles of Italian law,\u201d said Alberto Spampinato, a journalist and founder of the NGO Ossigeno per l\u2019Informazione (Oxygen for information).Another expert, Professor Giulio Illuminati of LUISS in Rome, said there was no legal framework for the Vatican to seek the journalists\u2019 extradition because the Vatican does not have an extradition agreement with Italy. Illuminati also noted that Italy could question the fairness of the trial since the Vatican is not a signatory to the European convention on human rights.The Vatican charged Nuzzi and Fittipaldi just weeks after both journalists released books that contained embarrassing allegations about financial mismanagement of Vatican funds. The Vatican \u2013 a sovereign city-state within the city of Rome \u2013 has not disputed any facts contained in the books, but the pair are being charged under a law that was passed under Pope Francis in 2013 that makes it a crime to leak or publish classified documents. In Italy there are a number of laws that protect journalists\u2019 right to publish controversial information. While it can be illegal to publish information contained in classified documents, Spampinato said that a journalist in Italy would only be charged with a crime if the publication of a leaked document was deemed a threat to national security.Article 21 of Italy\u2019s constitution also protects freedom of speech and expression. Although the case has received attention from various press freedom groups, the Italian government has so far been silent on the charges against the Italian journalists.\u201cThe government is being very prudent, like looking on from a window at what is happening. The relations between Italy and the Holy See are very diplomatic and regulated by law,\u201d said Spampinato.The silence of Italy\u2019s political leaders has been heavily criticised by one prominent voice: Ezio Mauro, the longtime editor-in-chief of the Italian daily newspaper la Repubblica. Related: 'Vatileaks' scandal a 'battle between good and evil' in the Catholic church \u201cWe haven\u2019t heard the voice of one politician,\u201d Mauro said in his morning news conference, which is published online. \u201cMaybe politicians should say something: maybe the PD [the ruling Democratic Party] should raise its head from the small-bore cannibalistic intestinal squabbles that it envelops itself in every day. The prime minister should give us his opinion, and the justice minister should say a word.\u201dThe influential editor also pointed an accusatory finger at the pope himself, suggesting it was impossible to reform the Vatican into a more transparent institution, as Pope Francis has said, if journalists are punished for doing their jobs.\u201cYou can\u2019t practise transparency and freedom and then put on trial not those who are the authors of bad government and misuse of the Holy See\u2019s finances but the journalists who exposed what is rotten in the Vatican,\u201d Mauro said.Following their indictment on criminal charges last month, both journalists willingly attended their first hearing inside the Vatican walls. They are not being held within the city-state. The journalists have noted some irregularities involving their trial, including the fact that neither were given documents about the charges against them until the day of the first hearing.The Vatican has insisted that it is not seeking to target speech by prosecuting the journalists. \u201cThe trial is not about liberty and freedom of journalism. Criminal activities are criminal,\u201d said Thomas Rosica, a Vatican spokesman.But there is little available information about the precise nature of the crime the journalists have been accused of. Fittipaldi has sought to have charges against him dropped because Vatican prosecutors have not detailed which classified documents he is alleged to have used.\u201cWe are waiting and hoping that something will happen that will make the situation clearer for the journalists,\u201d said Spampinato.Giulia Bongiorno, a well-known Italian defence lawyer who is representing Francesca Chaouqui, a public relations official who formerly worked for the Vatican and was charged with leaking confidential documents, said the fundamental rights of her client were being \u201cseriously infringed\u201d. Bongiorno was barred from representing her client inside the Vatican courtroom because she was not approved by the Vatican.\u201cThe execution in Italy of the criminal conviction would not be allowed since the Vatican procedure has been unlawful and partially in breach of the rules governing a due process of law,\u201d Bongiorno told the Guardian.", "tags": ["Vatican", "Italy", "World news", "Journalist safety", "Human rights", "Media law", "Catholicism", "Pope Francis"], "title": "Vatican set for diplomatic clash with Italy over 'Vatileaks' prosecution"},{"date": "2015-11-13T15:37:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The record-breaking sale of Amedeo Modigliani\u2019s famous painting of a nude, Nu Couch\u00e9, to a Chinese billionaire for $170.4m (\u00a3120m) made headlines around the world this week. But it has prompted lamentation in the Italian artist\u2019s hometown of Livorno, whose mayor said the painting should to have been bought by Italy instead.\u201cI am displeased that it went to a private person because I think it should have been given to a museum so that it could be seen by everyone. Its beauty could have affected many people and now that may not happen,\u201d Filippo Nogarin said.The mayor \u2013 who claimed the Tuscan port city of Livorno had a \u201cvisceral love\u201d for the 20th-century artist whose nudes were once considered scandalous because of their explicit sexuality \u2013 said Monday\u2019s sale of Nu Couch\u00e9, or Reclining Nude, to Liu Yiqian, a former taxi driver, had been a \u201cmissed opportunity\u201d for Italy. Nogarin is a member of the populist Five Star Movement. Related: Modigliani painting sells to Chinese billionaire for record breaking $170m Pointing to a recent controversy over the planned lease of a new Airbus A330 for use by the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, Nogarin said Italy would have been making a wiser investment if it had purchased the painting and kept it in Italian hands. \u201cI would have preferred one more Modigliani and one less aeroplane,\u201d he said.The Modigliani nude became one of only 10 pieces of art to sell for a nine-figure sum following its auction by Christie\u2019s this week. While Nogarin expressed fears that the fate of the painting and the public\u2019s future access to it were unknown, the Chinese buyer plans to exhibit the work in one of two private museums he owns in Shanghai.Liu told the New York Times the work, described by Christie\u2019s as \u201can overtly sexual, highly erotic painting yet also one that is subtle, elegant, tender, loving and extraordinarily refined\u201d, would be put on exhibit for his museum\u2019s fifth anniversary. It was not clear whether it would have a permanent home there.\u201cIt will be an opportunity for Chinese art lovers to see good artworks without having to leave the country, which is one of the main reasons why we founded the museums,\u201d he said.The 52-year-old collector and middle school dropout made his fortune on the Chinese stock market in the 80s and 90s. In a 2013 video interview with the New York Times, he said his museum would serve as an important protector of China\u2019s rich cultural history. \u201cThe price of art cannot be separated from a country\u2019s status in the world. It\u2019s two sides of the same coin,\u201d he said.Modigliani was Italian but Nu Couch\u00e9 was initially owned by the artist\u2019s Polish-born poet and patron, L\u00e9opold Zborowski, who lived in Paris. Liu\u2019s views about the value of art and its importance to a country\u2019s cultural history is shared by the Livorno mayor.\u201cLivorno has a strange relationship with Modigliani. It\u2019s a visceral love and then also a sense of guilt because Modigliani left Livorno as a young man,\u201d Nogarin said. \u201cModigliani is celebrated a lot here ... the painting could have become a [local] attraction. This was a missed opportunity to have this kind of painting here.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Art", "Europe", "World news", "Painting", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "$170m Modigliani sale was 'missed opportunity for Italy'"},{"date": "2015-12-19T07:00:10Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The aperitivo is an old and civilised Italian custom, particularly in the north \u2013 a way of rounding off the working day by gathering in a bar for drinks and nibbles before heading home for dinner. Some bar owners offer more than just nuts and olives but, basically, the custom belongs to an old-style Italy, where mamma\u2019s food is best and the family gathers round her table each night. Related: 10 of the best places to stay in Italy for foodies But that is changing: mamma may be out at work herself, rather than in the kitchen hand-rolling tortelloni. In the past few years, starting in Milan and Turin, a new twist on the custom caters for students and a younger crowd \u2013 who perhaps don\u2019t have the funds for a restaurant dinner, or the time to go home and eat before hitting the clubs. This is the apericena (formed by adding cena \u2013 dinner \u2013 to aperitivo).Bars started offering a buffet of homemade hot and cold dishes with evening drinks \u2013 substantial enough to constitute a light dinner \u2013 at a relatively light price \u2013 often \u20ac10 for one drink and the buffet. High-end spots, with a great view or setting, say, rarely charge more than \u20ac20. Now, to the consternation of traditional restaurateurs, apericena joints have sprung up in many university cities \u2013 in Pisa, Florence, Bologna and Padua.Crostini, bruschette, salads, roasted vegetables, cured meats, baked pastas, risottos and hot and cold meat and fish dishes, plus desserts from tarts to ice-creams, make satisfying and affordable fuel for a night on the tiles. Related: Elena Ferrante\u2019s Ischia: an Italian island paradise In Milan, apericena\u2019s spiritual home, the Exotic restaurant and bar, a short walk from the university, makes a feature of it on Monday nights, with a \u20ac10 buffet of salads, pastas, meats and vegetable dishes. At 10pm it is replaced by a dessert buffet: nutella-stuffed pastries, ice-cream and fruit. In Turin, those in the know make for studenty, cinema-themed Lobelix Cafe on Via Corte d\u2019Appello. It\u2019s decorated with old film posters and strips of film, and \u20ac11 buys a drink (aperitif, glass of wine or draught beer) plus unlimited visits to the buffet of pasta, veg, meat and fish dishes \u2013 with glass covers to keep everything fresh and appetising. Food can be eaten on the closed-in terrace with views of the eponymous obelisk in Piazza Savoia.Visitors to Italy\u2019s tourist meccas can also enjoy the trend: studenty areas are the best bet. In Florence, Kitsch bar on Viale Gramsci is as ornate as the name suggests, and does a generous buffet of pastas and meat and veg dishes, plus fruit and cake (\u20ac10 for first drink, subsequent drinks \u20ac4). It\u2019s mostly Tuscan food, but does occasional themed nights, such as Mexican. There is another branch, Kitsch Devx, near the station.Apericena is harder to find in the south, but Bar Pappagallo (via Anastasio II 45), behind the Vatican gardens in Rome, does an amazing value one for \u20ac8 every night until 10pm, with a cocktail, beer or wine, plus risottos, house-made pasta, veg, cold meats and cheese, and tasty nibbles like arancini.And from this winter, you don\u2019t even have to go to Italy for an apericena: northern wine bar chain Veeno does an unlimited buffet of Italian food (\u00a37 for first drink) every Wednesday in its Manchester, York and Leeds branches.", "tags": ["Italy holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Italy embraces apericena: the student supper"},{"date": "2015-10-15T17:05:11Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Italian government has approved a series of business-friendly tax cuts and measures to boost consumer spending that could put Rome in breach of austerity budget rules set by Brussels.Prime minister Matteo Renzi said a reduction in the main corporation tax rate and reduced levies on agricultural and industrial equipment were aimed at supporting Italy\u2019s fragile recovery.Putting forward a budget for next year on the last day of a deadline set by the EU commission, Renzi said \u20ac5bn (\u00a33.7bn) of tax cuts would include the abolition of a wealth tax on the main residence of all Italians, worth around \u20ac200 a year to most homeowners.The 40-year old said the package would make Italy \u201ca simpler and fairer country\u201d, adding: \u201cThis year not only are the taxes not going up but they are coming down.\u201dThe proposals will now go before parliament, where they must be approved by the end of the year. However, the budget must also be approved by Brussels, which only last week warned the rightwing government of Mariano Rajoy in Spain that proposals to relax austerity measures in its 2016 budget could be rejected.New fiscal rules, adopted after the eurozone debt crisis, give the European commission power to seek amendments to national budgets.Renzi, who has made tax cuts a rallying cry ever since he came to office in February last year, appears to be prepared for a fight against the Brussels elite that wants Italy to take the opportunity of its recent recovery to step up fiscal tightening.Alessandro Zattoni, an economics professor at the LUISS business school in Rome, said the EU commission is concerned that the deterioration in world trade following the slowdown in China could hurt the Italian economy, hitting tax revenues and further widening the budget deficit.Last month, the government increased its target for 2016\u2019s deficit to 2.2% of output, up from 1.8%, and said it expected the national debt to hit 131.4% of national income (GDP), up from a previous forecast of 130.9%. Renzi said that nonetheless, the debt-to-GDP ratio would begin to fall next year for the first time in nine years, and said other countries that were critical of Italy did not themselves respect the EU\u2019s fiscal rules. Zattoni said Brussels was likely to give Renzi a fair hearing after he imposed stringent austerity measures last year and was forced to increase spending this year to cope with the refugee crisis.\u201cIt is about the feeling in Brussels. And I think that has improved after a series of reforms and Renzi\u2019s handling of the refugee situation,\u201d he said.\u201cBut Brussels will want to keep an eye on Rome because it is concerned that the economy and the budget could be vulnerable to a deterioration in global trade.\u201dHe said business-friendly tax cuts and reforms were good news for the business community and especially entrepreneurs, which have struggled against a tax system that can sometimes charge more than 100% of profits.Reforms to the pension system, allowing older workers to work part-time while drawing their pension, could also free up jobs for younger workers, he said.A tax break for employers who hire staff on unlimited contracts will be continued, although the benefit to employers could be cut after it proved hugely successful.The government ams to limit the growth in short-term contracts that have played a dominant role since the financial crash but have also left millions of younger workers on low pay with little job security.", "tags": ["Austerity", "Eurozone", "Italy", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Economics"], "title": "Italy budget: Renzi risks Brussels battle"},{"date": "2015-12-01T18:16:30Z", "country": "italy", "content": "Italy is facing a diplomatic collision with the Vatican over the church\u2019s prosecution of two Italian journalists in a case that has been broadly condemned by press freedom groups.A media watchdog that chronicles acts of intimidation against Italian journalists said Italy would have the legal right to reject any attempt by the Vatican to seek the extradition of the two journalists \u2013 Gianluigi Nuzzi and Emiliano Fittipaldi \u2013 if the pair are found guilty by a Vatican court of publishing classified and leaked documents.The trial of the journalists and three former Vatican officials \u2013 who have been charged with leaking the documents \u2013 will continue next week after being adjourned on Monday. The journalists technically face up to eight years in jail if they are convicted. Related: Vatileaks: media groups condemn Vatican as first hearing takes place \u201cItaly very easily should and could refuse any extradition request because we have an article in our penal code that says such a request can be refused if the alleged \u2018crime\u2019 the person has been charged with is itself against the paramount principles of Italian law,\u201d said Alberto Spampinato, a journalist and founder of the NGO Ossigeno per l\u2019Informazione (Oxygen for information).Another expert, Professor Giulio Illuminati of LUISS in Rome, said there was no legal framework for the Vatican to seek the journalists\u2019 extradition because the Vatican does not have an extradition agreement with Italy. Illuminati also noted that Italy could question the fairness of the trial since the Vatican is not a signatory to the European convention on human rights.The Vatican charged Nuzzi and Fittipaldi just weeks after both journalists released books that contained embarrassing allegations about financial mismanagement of Vatican funds. The Vatican \u2013 a sovereign city-state within the city of Rome \u2013 has not disputed any facts contained in the books, but the pair are being charged under a law that was passed under Pope Francis in 2013 that makes it a crime to leak or publish classified documents. In Italy there are a number of laws that protect journalists\u2019 right to publish controversial information. While it can be illegal to publish information contained in classified documents, Spampinato said that a journalist in Italy would only be charged with a crime if the publication of a leaked document was deemed a threat to national security.Article 21 of Italy\u2019s constitution also protects freedom of speech and expression. Although the case has received attention from various press freedom groups, the Italian government has so far been silent on the charges against the Italian journalists.\u201cThe government is being very prudent, like looking on from a window at what is happening. The relations between Italy and the Holy See are very diplomatic and regulated by law,\u201d said Spampinato.The silence of Italy\u2019s political leaders has been heavily criticised by one prominent voice: Ezio Mauro, the longtime editor-in-chief of the Italian daily newspaper la Repubblica. Related: 'Vatileaks' scandal a 'battle between good and evil' in the Catholic church \u201cWe haven\u2019t heard the voice of one politician,\u201d Mauro said in his morning news conference, which is published online. \u201cMaybe politicians should say something: maybe the PD [the ruling Democratic Party] should raise its head from the small-bore cannibalistic intestinal squabbles that it envelops itself in every day. The prime minister should give us his opinion, and the justice minister should say a word.\u201dThe influential editor also pointed an accusatory finger at the pope himself, suggesting it was impossible to reform the Vatican into a more transparent institution, as Pope Francis has said, if journalists are punished for doing their jobs.\u201cYou can\u2019t practise transparency and freedom and then put on trial not those who are the authors of bad government and misuse of the Holy See\u2019s finances but the journalists who exposed what is rotten in the Vatican,\u201d Mauro said.Following their indictment on criminal charges last month, both journalists willingly attended their first hearing inside the Vatican walls. They are not being held within the city-state. The journalists have noted some irregularities involving their trial, including the fact that neither were given documents about the charges against them until the day of the first hearing.The Vatican has insisted that it is not seeking to target speech by prosecuting the journalists. \u201cThe trial is not about liberty and freedom of journalism. Criminal activities are criminal,\u201d said Thomas Rosica, a Vatican spokesman.But there is little available information about the precise nature of the crime the journalists have been accused of. Fittipaldi has sought to have charges against him dropped because Vatican prosecutors have not detailed which classified documents he is alleged to have used.\u201cWe are waiting and hoping that something will happen that will make the situation clearer for the journalists,\u201d said Spampinato.Giulia Bongiorno, a well-known Italian defence lawyer who is representing Francesca Chaouqui, a public relations official who formerly worked for the Vatican and was charged with leaking confidential documents, said the fundamental rights of her client were being \u201cseriously infringed\u201d. Bongiorno was barred from representing her client inside the Vatican courtroom because she was not approved by the Vatican.\u201cThe execution in Italy of the criminal conviction would not be allowed since the Vatican procedure has been unlawful and partially in breach of the rules governing a due process of law,\u201d Bongiorno told the Guardian.", "tags": ["Vatican", "Italy", "World news", "Journalist safety", "Human rights", "Media law", "Catholicism", "Pope Francis"], "title": "Vatican set for diplomatic clash with Italy over 'Vatileaks' prosecution"},{"date": "2015-11-13T15:37:00Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The record-breaking sale of Amedeo Modigliani\u2019s famous painting of a nude, Nu Couch\u00e9, to a Chinese billionaire for $170.4m (\u00a3120m) made headlines around the world this week. But it has prompted lamentation in the Italian artist\u2019s hometown of Livorno, whose mayor said the painting should to have been bought by Italy instead.\u201cI am displeased that it went to a private person because I think it should have been given to a museum so that it could be seen by everyone. Its beauty could have affected many people and now that may not happen,\u201d Filippo Nogarin said.The mayor \u2013 who claimed the Tuscan port city of Livorno had a \u201cvisceral love\u201d for the 20th-century artist whose nudes were once considered scandalous because of their explicit sexuality \u2013 said Monday\u2019s sale of Nu Couch\u00e9, or Reclining Nude, to Liu Yiqian, a former taxi driver, had been a \u201cmissed opportunity\u201d for Italy. Nogarin is a member of the populist Five Star Movement. Related: Modigliani painting sells to Chinese billionaire for record breaking $170m Pointing to a recent controversy over the planned lease of a new Airbus A330 for use by the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, Nogarin said Italy would have been making a wiser investment if it had purchased the painting and kept it in Italian hands. \u201cI would have preferred one more Modigliani and one less aeroplane,\u201d he said.The Modigliani nude became one of only 10 pieces of art to sell for a nine-figure sum following its auction by Christie\u2019s this week. While Nogarin expressed fears that the fate of the painting and the public\u2019s future access to it were unknown, the Chinese buyer plans to exhibit the work in one of two private museums he owns in Shanghai.Liu told the New York Times the work, described by Christie\u2019s as \u201can overtly sexual, highly erotic painting yet also one that is subtle, elegant, tender, loving and extraordinarily refined\u201d, would be put on exhibit for his museum\u2019s fifth anniversary. It was not clear whether it would have a permanent home there.\u201cIt will be an opportunity for Chinese art lovers to see good artworks without having to leave the country, which is one of the main reasons why we founded the museums,\u201d he said.The 52-year-old collector and middle school dropout made his fortune on the Chinese stock market in the 80s and 90s. In a 2013 video interview with the New York Times, he said his museum would serve as an important protector of China\u2019s rich cultural history. \u201cThe price of art cannot be separated from a country\u2019s status in the world. It\u2019s two sides of the same coin,\u201d he said.Modigliani was Italian but Nu Couch\u00e9 was initially owned by the artist\u2019s Polish-born poet and patron, L\u00e9opold Zborowski, who lived in Paris. Liu\u2019s views about the value of art and its importance to a country\u2019s cultural history is shared by the Livorno mayor.\u201cLivorno has a strange relationship with Modigliani. It\u2019s a visceral love and then also a sense of guilt because Modigliani left Livorno as a young man,\u201d Nogarin said. \u201cModigliani is celebrated a lot here ... the painting could have become a [local] attraction. This was a missed opportunity to have this kind of painting here.\u201d", "tags": ["Italy", "Art", "Europe", "World news", "Painting", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "$170m Modigliani sale was 'missed opportunity for Italy'"},{"date": "2015-10-02T09:10:32Z", "country": "italy", "content": "The Volkswagen emissions-testing scandal is deepening, with authorities in France and Italy launching investigations into the embattled German carmaker.Italy\u2019s competition regulator is to investigate whether VW engaged in \u201cimproper commercial practices\u201d by promoting its vehicles as meeting emissions standards which it failed to reach without a \u201cdefeat device\u201d.The inquiry involves Volkswagen, Audi, Seat and Skoda diesel vehicles sold between 2009 and 2015. VW has suspended the sale of affected vehicles in Italy, and has said it will recall more than 650,000 vehicles in the country.In France, an official from the prosecutor\u2019s office told Reuters that an inquiry had been opened. The French magazine L\u2019Express said this had been launched at the instigation of Pierre Serne, vice-president of the region \u00cele-de-France responsible for transport.It also emerged on Friday that other car manufacturers \u2013 BMW, Chrysler, General Motors, Land Rover and Mercedes-Benz \u2013 are under scrutiny from the US regulator that exposed Volkswagen\u2019s manipulation of emissions tests. Related: VW sold new cars with defeat devices in UK even after scandal broke in US The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has broadened its investigation to include at least 28 diesel-powered car models made by those companies, according to the Financial Times.VW has admitted to the US regulator that it fitted up to 11m vehicles worldwide with software that manipulates the tests. Its chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, has stepped down and is facing a criminal investigation in Germany, along with other, unnamed, employees of the carmaker.The EPA will initially test one used vehicle of each model and then widen the enquiry if it finds anything suspicious, a senior agency official close to the investigation told the FT.The investigation will include most of the diesel vehicles on American roads, such as BMW\u2019s X3, Chrysler\u2019s Grand Cherokee, GM\u2019s Chevrolet Colorado, the Range Rover TDV6 and the Mercedes-Benz E250 BlueTec. Diesel engines make up a tiny proportion of the overall car market in the US, but are far more common in Europe. Related: BMW shares tumble amid claims X3 model exceeds EU emissions limits BMW has rejected allegations that it cheated emissions tests.About 2.8m Volkswagen vehicles are affected in Germany, nearly 1.2m in the UK and 482,000 in the US. The software detected when a diesel car was being tested and switched on controls to cut emissions. On the road, cars were found to be emitting up to 40 times the permitted level of nitrogen oxide. Former UK science minister Lord Drayson has admitted that the Labour government\u2019s support for diesel cars was a mistake, and warned that diesels were \u201cliterally killing people\u201d.Luc Simoncini, of Kames Equity Investment, said: \u201cCar manufacturers could be tarnished for some time, irrespective of the individual merit of each company. The scandal currently hurting VW echoes eerily of the scandals which tarnished big banks at the peak of the financial boom.\u201dHe advised investors to stay away from the auto sector for the time being, saying there are enough other investment opportunities. \u201cFor the auto industry, it is still unclear what the response of regulators across the world will be, especially around the implementation of new tests. In addition, the long term case for diesel engines for compact cars could be in jeopardy and could impact the fundamental valuation of most players in the sector.\u201dTax specialists Baker Tilly noted that HMRC, and British taxpayers, could be losers in the scandal. At this stage it is unclear whether the software used by VW to manipulate tests lowered CO2 as well as nitrogen oxide emissions. UK vehicle duty and benefit in kind tax are based on CO2 emissions, so lower emissions mean that less tax is collected from the driver. Bill Longe, of Baker Tilly, said: \u201cIf it is eventually proven that the VW software did lower CO2 ratings, then HMRC \u2013 and ultimately UK taxpayers \u2013 will feel quite rightfully cheated out of much-needed revenue.\u201dThe firm also questioned whether a tax break on diesel cars due to be announced in 2016 could be shelved.", "tags": ["Volkswagen (VW)", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Pollution", "Environment", "France", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Italy", "Electric", " hybrid and low-emission cars", "US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Motoring", "Technology", "Travel and transport"], "title": "VW scandal widens as France and Italy launch deception inquiries"},