[{"date": "2008-01-04T12:51:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Four hundred years ago, Don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra wrote: \"Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.\" The advice didn't help Don Quixote de la Mancha much, but I'm hoping it will help my six Mallorcan students and me as we embark upon our first language lessons together. After completing two weeks of intensive Spanish lessons, I am only too aware of the potential difficulties ahead in my role as a trainee teacher.Three of my students work within the tourism industry and want to learn English in order to progress within their chosen careers. Jorge and In\u00e9z are local hotel workers, while Erika is a German tourist representative from Cologne. As my students know the elementary rules of the English language, I decide to focus on vocabulary that will prove useful for both the hotel workers and the students learning English for other reasons.The six pupils seem nervous in the stifling heat of a June Mallorcan morning. Resolutely, I remove the first object from my suitcase: a hotel reception bell. Its high-pitched \"Ding!\" quickly draws curious looks and laughter from my students, followed by rapid chatter between an elderly man and a young woman in Catalan. I wonder if they are questioning my sanity.We run over the vocabulary necessary for making a hotel reservation, including room types and the length of stay. Most of all, my students want to be able to use their new vocabulary during conversations, so the lesson focuses on speaking. Split into three pairs, I distribute prepared cards that illustrate the kind of reservation required - with bathroom, breakfast included, sea view, etc - which encourages the learners to make specific requests in complete sentences.Marta and Erika seem the strongest students from the group, so I ask them to demonstrate, one acting as the reservations clerk, the other as the customer. The latter hits the bell in a scene reminiscent of Faulty Towers, and the students clearly enjoy the role-play and the language it enables them to use.While reflecting on the highs and lows of my first lesson, I am struck by the disparities among the students in terms of age, profession, gender and national origin. I need to provide an opportunity that will allow social engagement during the learning experience. The topic fit for purpose is food.As I wait for my students to arrive for the next lesson, I pull the second resource from my suitcase: a collection of British food-magazine articles and clippings. Following the test-teach-test method, I introduce my students to the names of local and international foodstuffs using pictures, restaurant menus and some realia. In particular, we focus on ordering in a restaurant setting in pairs, one student acting as the customer and the other as the waiter.Speaking from my own experience, a strong motivation for learning a new language is a desire to understand the culture in which the language is spoken. For that reason, I introduce and explain some traditional British food, which my students in the hospitality industry are already familiar with. But some of the other students are surprised to discover that curry has become a staple of the British diet.As it is lunchtime, we move on to the final component of my lesson: the sandwich shop. I spread my real ingredients on a long table, together with plates and cutlery brought from the school kitchen. I mix up the pairs, inviting three of the students to act as sandwich makers and the other three learners to act as customers. Using the vocabulary and sentences they have just learned, the students make sandwiches and salads for one another.Marta - a university student and part-time waitress - particularly enjoys this activity as it engages her kinesthetic learning style. To my delight, my students sit down and get to know one another over lunch, before heading home for a siesta.The following week, Palma de Mallorca is stifling, the island and its residents enveloped by heat. While Mallorca's glorious weather is one of the main attractions for many tourists, it makes for an uncomfortable learning environment. At the outset of my third lesson, Alejandro - a 72-year-old retired construction worker - suggests we meet early in the morning for our remaining lesson. In the meantime, we focus on a topic of universal interest: the weather.Although my students are in the early stages of learning English, I show an online BBC weather forecast in order to introduce some of the vocabulary. Again, my students are keen to speak, so after using a simple worksheet reinforcing weather conditions, I pull more resources from my suitcase: a giant wall map of Scotland and some weather symbols. I show my students where the main cities of Scotland are located and then ask them to write a short weather forecast in pairs, which they will present to the rest of the class. Of course, students are keen to use the most unusual weather predictions, resulting in hailstones in Glasgow, and thunder and lightning in Edinburgh.I am pleased because two of the less forthcoming class members - Alejandro and Adri\u00e1n, an administrator at the Universitat de les Illes Balears - are much more confident today when speaking in English in front of their classmates. But overall, the class is much less energetic than on previous occasions, although I suspect this may be down to the heat.My previous lessons have all been classroom-based, which seems a shame given the surrounding landscape. I am also conscious of the fact that I have not delivered any lessons that have engaged my audio learners. In order to rectify this, I send my students on a fact-finding mission in Palma de Mallorca, the hometown of three of my learners.Split into two teams of three, I give both groups a small tape recorder, which contains details of the separate routes they must take and the information they must gather: the number of restaurants located on Avigunda Jaume III, the cost of a two-night stay in an double room with bathroom in the Hotel Saratoga, the chicken dishes served at Ca'n Carlos, and the dates one can rent a boat from the harbour. My students complete the task surprisingly quickly, with Team B - named RCD Mallorca after the local football team - returning to the language centre first. While we wait for Team A, In\u00e9z - a receptionist at a small hotel on the island - comments on how differently one views the city from a tourist's perspective, a point that we later discuss as a group.This is my final lesson with this group of students, and I feel somewhat flat. Alejandro smiles as he hands me a small card in an envelope, and my students wave as they leave the classroom for the final time. I remove the street map I had been using from the notice board and return it to my suitcase. Slowly, I open the card. It reads:Dear Kata,Turn right as you exit the school. Take the third street on the left and cross the bridge. Turn right down Avinguda Santa Maria and you will arrive at house 22.Regards,Alejandro, In\u00e9z, Marta, Jorge, Erika and Adri\u00e1nI walk, card in hand, and arrive at an unassuming home on a back street of Palma de Mallorca. I'm about to knock at the door when a pair of wooden shutters open on the third floor. An elderly women looks down at me and grins. \"Un momento, por favor,\" she calls, and I can hear footsteps from within. The door opens and Alejandro emerges into the dazzling sunlight wearing his beloved RCD Mallorca shirt, beckoning me to enter. I find my five students seated around the kitchen table, and realise that my experience as a trainee teacher has not only aided my personal development, both as a person and as a practitioner, but it has also established cross-cultural relationships, irrespective of factors such as age, nationality, gender and language.\"I hope you like curry,\" grins Alejandro.\u00b7 This piece was entered for the Suzanne Furstner Foundation scholarship award. Click here for more details", "tags": ["Tefl", "Education"], "title": "Six weeks in Spain"},{"date": "2008-01-04T12:51:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Four hundred years ago, Don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra wrote: \"Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.\" The advice didn't help Don Quixote de la Mancha much, but I'm hoping it will help my six Mallorcan students and me as we embark upon our first language lessons together. After completing two weeks of intensive Spanish lessons, I am only too aware of the potential difficulties ahead in my role as a trainee teacher.Three of my students work within the tourism industry and want to learn English in order to progress within their chosen careers. Jorge and In\u00e9z are local hotel workers, while Erika is a German tourist representative from Cologne. As my students know the elementary rules of the English language, I decide to focus on vocabulary that will prove useful for both the hotel workers and the students learning English for other reasons.The six pupils seem nervous in the stifling heat of a June Mallorcan morning. Resolutely, I remove the first object from my suitcase: a hotel reception bell. Its high-pitched \"Ding!\" quickly draws curious looks and laughter from my students, followed by rapid chatter between an elderly man and a young woman in Catalan. I wonder if they are questioning my sanity.We run over the vocabulary necessary for making a hotel reservation, including room types and the length of stay. Most of all, my students want to be able to use their new vocabulary during conversations, so the lesson focuses on speaking. Split into three pairs, I distribute prepared cards that illustrate the kind of reservation required - with bathroom, breakfast included, sea view, etc - which encourages the learners to make specific requests in complete sentences.Marta and Erika seem the strongest students from the group, so I ask them to demonstrate, one acting as the reservations clerk, the other as the customer. The latter hits the bell in a scene reminiscent of Faulty Towers, and the students clearly enjoy the role-play and the language it enables them to use.While reflecting on the highs and lows of my first lesson, I am struck by the disparities among the students in terms of age, profession, gender and national origin. I need to provide an opportunity that will allow social engagement during the learning experience. The topic fit for purpose is food.As I wait for my students to arrive for the next lesson, I pull the second resource from my suitcase: a collection of British food-magazine articles and clippings. Following the test-teach-test method, I introduce my students to the names of local and international foodstuffs using pictures, restaurant menus and some realia. In particular, we focus on ordering in a restaurant setting in pairs, one student acting as the customer and the other as the waiter.Speaking from my own experience, a strong motivation for learning a new language is a desire to understand the culture in which the language is spoken. For that reason, I introduce and explain some traditional British food, which my students in the hospitality industry are already familiar with. But some of the other students are surprised to discover that curry has become a staple of the British diet.As it is lunchtime, we move on to the final component of my lesson: the sandwich shop. I spread my real ingredients on a long table, together with plates and cutlery brought from the school kitchen. I mix up the pairs, inviting three of the students to act as sandwich makers and the other three learners to act as customers. Using the vocabulary and sentences they have just learned, the students make sandwiches and salads for one another.Marta - a university student and part-time waitress - particularly enjoys this activity as it engages her kinesthetic learning style. To my delight, my students sit down and get to know one another over lunch, before heading home for a siesta.The following week, Palma de Mallorca is stifling, the island and its residents enveloped by heat. While Mallorca's glorious weather is one of the main attractions for many tourists, it makes for an uncomfortable learning environment. At the outset of my third lesson, Alejandro - a 72-year-old retired construction worker - suggests we meet early in the morning for our remaining lesson. In the meantime, we focus on a topic of universal interest: the weather.Although my students are in the early stages of learning English, I show an online BBC weather forecast in order to introduce some of the vocabulary. Again, my students are keen to speak, so after using a simple worksheet reinforcing weather conditions, I pull more resources from my suitcase: a giant wall map of Scotland and some weather symbols. I show my students where the main cities of Scotland are located and then ask them to write a short weather forecast in pairs, which they will present to the rest of the class. Of course, students are keen to use the most unusual weather predictions, resulting in hailstones in Glasgow, and thunder and lightning in Edinburgh.I am pleased because two of the less forthcoming class members - Alejandro and Adri\u00e1n, an administrator at the Universitat de les Illes Balears - are much more confident today when speaking in English in front of their classmates. But overall, the class is much less energetic than on previous occasions, although I suspect this may be down to the heat.My previous lessons have all been classroom-based, which seems a shame given the surrounding landscape. I am also conscious of the fact that I have not delivered any lessons that have engaged my audio learners. In order to rectify this, I send my students on a fact-finding mission in Palma de Mallorca, the hometown of three of my learners.Split into two teams of three, I give both groups a small tape recorder, which contains details of the separate routes they must take and the information they must gather: the number of restaurants located on Avigunda Jaume III, the cost of a two-night stay in an double room with bathroom in the Hotel Saratoga, the chicken dishes served at Ca'n Carlos, and the dates one can rent a boat from the harbour. My students complete the task surprisingly quickly, with Team B - named RCD Mallorca after the local football team - returning to the language centre first. While we wait for Team A, In\u00e9z - a receptionist at a small hotel on the island - comments on how differently one views the city from a tourist's perspective, a point that we later discuss as a group.This is my final lesson with this group of students, and I feel somewhat flat. Alejandro smiles as he hands me a small card in an envelope, and my students wave as they leave the classroom for the final time. I remove the street map I had been using from the notice board and return it to my suitcase. Slowly, I open the card. It reads:Dear Kata,Turn right as you exit the school. Take the third street on the left and cross the bridge. Turn right down Avinguda Santa Maria and you will arrive at house 22.Regards,Alejandro, In\u00e9z, Marta, Jorge, Erika and Adri\u00e1nI walk, card in hand, and arrive at an unassuming home on a back street of Palma de Mallorca. I'm about to knock at the door when a pair of wooden shutters open on the third floor. An elderly women looks down at me and grins. \"Un momento, por favor,\" she calls, and I can hear footsteps from within. The door opens and Alejandro emerges into the dazzling sunlight wearing his beloved RCD Mallorca shirt, beckoning me to enter. I find my five students seated around the kitchen table, and realise that my experience as a trainee teacher has not only aided my personal development, both as a person and as a practitioner, but it has also established cross-cultural relationships, irrespective of factors such as age, nationality, gender and language.\"I hope you like curry,\" grins Alejandro.\u00b7 This piece was entered for the Suzanne Furstner Foundation scholarship award. Click here for more details", "tags": ["Tefl", "Education"], "title": "Six weeks in Spain"},{"date": "2008-03-08T01:03:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's political parties suspended campaigning in advance of tomorrow's general election after a former town councillor was shot dead yesterday by suspected Basque separatists.Isaias Carrasco, 42, was killed when he left the home he shared with his wife and three children in the Basque town of Mondrag\u00f3n at about 1.30pm.His wife and daughter came running out when they heard the shots. Carrasco was rushed to a local hospital, but died shortly after. He had been shot several times, twice in the back of his head, by a lone gunman, who witnesses said was wearing a false beard, while a driver waited in a getaway carAt a press conference in Madrid the Socialist party prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, pledged to track down the killers. \"The terrorists have today tried to interfere in the peaceful manifestation of the will of the people at the polls,\" he said. \"Eta has already been defeated by democracy - rejected and isolated by Spaniards as a whole and by Basque society ... its members have no other future than jail.\" Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the interior minister, also blamed Eta for the killing, the fifth by the group since a ceasefire was broken in 2006. \"This is a vile and cowardly act which deserves our total rejection,\" he said. Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy, the leader of the opposition Popular party (PP), agreed to suspend their final rallies due to be held last night.Spain had been on alert for a terrorist attack during the campaign.Last month Perez Rubalcaba said he expected Eta to attempt a deadly attack. Since 1977, Eta has killed 20 people in the run-up to elections in efforts to bring Basque separatism to the head of the political agenda. Zapatero was elected four years ago partly as a result of a protest vote against the then PP government's handling of the aftermath of the Madrid bombings of March 11 2004, in which 191 people were killed and 1,800 injured.The PP government had initially tried to blame Eta for the attacks, despite evidence that Islamists were responsible. Three days later the Socialists swept to power. It was not clear yesterday what effect this latest killing would have on the election, which they are expected to win by a slim majority.Politicians from all parties called on Spaniards to show their rejection of Eta by turning out to vote in large numbers. Juan Jose Ibarretxe, president of the Basque regional government, said: \"We refuse to make a political interpretation of this murder two days before the elections because that would give Eta a political role that it ... doesn't deserve.\" Polls in the Basque country show that about a third of the 2 million population support independence, but only a tiny percentage back Eta's tactics.The group, which has killed more than 800 people in a 40-year campaign for Basque independence, is classified as a terrorist group by the US and EU.Eta declared a permanent ceasefire in March 2006, and began negotiating with the government in an attempt to bring an end to the conflict. But the ceasefire was formally called off last June and Eta killed two Spanish undercover policemen in France in December. According to Basque police Carrasco, a former councillor with the Socialists, had rejected the bodyguards traditionally provided to politicians in the Basque country. He lived with his wife and three children away from the centre of the town, making him an easy target.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Eta", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cancels election rallies after murder"},{"date": "2008-01-04T12:51:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Four hundred years ago, Don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra wrote: \"Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.\" The advice didn't help Don Quixote de la Mancha much, but I'm hoping it will help my six Mallorcan students and me as we embark upon our first language lessons together. After completing two weeks of intensive Spanish lessons, I am only too aware of the potential difficulties ahead in my role as a trainee teacher.Three of my students work within the tourism industry and want to learn English in order to progress within their chosen careers. Jorge and In\u00e9z are local hotel workers, while Erika is a German tourist representative from Cologne. As my students know the elementary rules of the English language, I decide to focus on vocabulary that will prove useful for both the hotel workers and the students learning English for other reasons.The six pupils seem nervous in the stifling heat of a June Mallorcan morning. Resolutely, I remove the first object from my suitcase: a hotel reception bell. Its high-pitched \"Ding!\" quickly draws curious looks and laughter from my students, followed by rapid chatter between an elderly man and a young woman in Catalan. I wonder if they are questioning my sanity.We run over the vocabulary necessary for making a hotel reservation, including room types and the length of stay. Most of all, my students want to be able to use their new vocabulary during conversations, so the lesson focuses on speaking. Split into three pairs, I distribute prepared cards that illustrate the kind of reservation required - with bathroom, breakfast included, sea view, etc - which encourages the learners to make specific requests in complete sentences.Marta and Erika seem the strongest students from the group, so I ask them to demonstrate, one acting as the reservations clerk, the other as the customer. The latter hits the bell in a scene reminiscent of Faulty Towers, and the students clearly enjoy the role-play and the language it enables them to use.While reflecting on the highs and lows of my first lesson, I am struck by the disparities among the students in terms of age, profession, gender and national origin. I need to provide an opportunity that will allow social engagement during the learning experience. The topic fit for purpose is food.As I wait for my students to arrive for the next lesson, I pull the second resource from my suitcase: a collection of British food-magazine articles and clippings. Following the test-teach-test method, I introduce my students to the names of local and international foodstuffs using pictures, restaurant menus and some realia. In particular, we focus on ordering in a restaurant setting in pairs, one student acting as the customer and the other as the waiter.Speaking from my own experience, a strong motivation for learning a new language is a desire to understand the culture in which the language is spoken. For that reason, I introduce and explain some traditional British food, which my students in the hospitality industry are already familiar with. But some of the other students are surprised to discover that curry has become a staple of the British diet.As it is lunchtime, we move on to the final component of my lesson: the sandwich shop. I spread my real ingredients on a long table, together with plates and cutlery brought from the school kitchen. I mix up the pairs, inviting three of the students to act as sandwich makers and the other three learners to act as customers. Using the vocabulary and sentences they have just learned, the students make sandwiches and salads for one another.Marta - a university student and part-time waitress - particularly enjoys this activity as it engages her kinesthetic learning style. To my delight, my students sit down and get to know one another over lunch, before heading home for a siesta.The following week, Palma de Mallorca is stifling, the island and its residents enveloped by heat. While Mallorca's glorious weather is one of the main attractions for many tourists, it makes for an uncomfortable learning environment. At the outset of my third lesson, Alejandro - a 72-year-old retired construction worker - suggests we meet early in the morning for our remaining lesson. In the meantime, we focus on a topic of universal interest: the weather.Although my students are in the early stages of learning English, I show an online BBC weather forecast in order to introduce some of the vocabulary. Again, my students are keen to speak, so after using a simple worksheet reinforcing weather conditions, I pull more resources from my suitcase: a giant wall map of Scotland and some weather symbols. I show my students where the main cities of Scotland are located and then ask them to write a short weather forecast in pairs, which they will present to the rest of the class. Of course, students are keen to use the most unusual weather predictions, resulting in hailstones in Glasgow, and thunder and lightning in Edinburgh.I am pleased because two of the less forthcoming class members - Alejandro and Adri\u00e1n, an administrator at the Universitat de les Illes Balears - are much more confident today when speaking in English in front of their classmates. But overall, the class is much less energetic than on previous occasions, although I suspect this may be down to the heat.My previous lessons have all been classroom-based, which seems a shame given the surrounding landscape. I am also conscious of the fact that I have not delivered any lessons that have engaged my audio learners. In order to rectify this, I send my students on a fact-finding mission in Palma de Mallorca, the hometown of three of my learners.Split into two teams of three, I give both groups a small tape recorder, which contains details of the separate routes they must take and the information they must gather: the number of restaurants located on Avigunda Jaume III, the cost of a two-night stay in an double room with bathroom in the Hotel Saratoga, the chicken dishes served at Ca'n Carlos, and the dates one can rent a boat from the harbour. My students complete the task surprisingly quickly, with Team B - named RCD Mallorca after the local football team - returning to the language centre first. While we wait for Team A, In\u00e9z - a receptionist at a small hotel on the island - comments on how differently one views the city from a tourist's perspective, a point that we later discuss as a group.This is my final lesson with this group of students, and I feel somewhat flat. Alejandro smiles as he hands me a small card in an envelope, and my students wave as they leave the classroom for the final time. I remove the street map I had been using from the notice board and return it to my suitcase. Slowly, I open the card. It reads:Dear Kata,Turn right as you exit the school. Take the third street on the left and cross the bridge. Turn right down Avinguda Santa Maria and you will arrive at house 22.Regards,Alejandro, In\u00e9z, Marta, Jorge, Erika and Adri\u00e1nI walk, card in hand, and arrive at an unassuming home on a back street of Palma de Mallorca. I'm about to knock at the door when a pair of wooden shutters open on the third floor. An elderly women looks down at me and grins. \"Un momento, por favor,\" she calls, and I can hear footsteps from within. The door opens and Alejandro emerges into the dazzling sunlight wearing his beloved RCD Mallorca shirt, beckoning me to enter. I find my five students seated around the kitchen table, and realise that my experience as a trainee teacher has not only aided my personal development, both as a person and as a practitioner, but it has also established cross-cultural relationships, irrespective of factors such as age, nationality, gender and language.\"I hope you like curry,\" grins Alejandro.\u00b7 This piece was entered for the Suzanne Furstner Foundation scholarship award. Click here for more details", "tags": ["Tefl", "Education"], "title": "Six weeks in Spain"},{"date": "2008-03-08T01:03:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's political parties suspended campaigning in advance of tomorrow's general election after a former town councillor was shot dead yesterday by suspected Basque separatists.Isaias Carrasco, 42, was killed when he left the home he shared with his wife and three children in the Basque town of Mondrag\u00f3n at about 1.30pm.His wife and daughter came running out when they heard the shots. Carrasco was rushed to a local hospital, but died shortly after. He had been shot several times, twice in the back of his head, by a lone gunman, who witnesses said was wearing a false beard, while a driver waited in a getaway carAt a press conference in Madrid the Socialist party prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, pledged to track down the killers. \"The terrorists have today tried to interfere in the peaceful manifestation of the will of the people at the polls,\" he said. \"Eta has already been defeated by democracy - rejected and isolated by Spaniards as a whole and by Basque society ... its members have no other future than jail.\" Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the interior minister, also blamed Eta for the killing, the fifth by the group since a ceasefire was broken in 2006. \"This is a vile and cowardly act which deserves our total rejection,\" he said. Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy, the leader of the opposition Popular party (PP), agreed to suspend their final rallies due to be held last night.Spain had been on alert for a terrorist attack during the campaign.Last month Perez Rubalcaba said he expected Eta to attempt a deadly attack. Since 1977, Eta has killed 20 people in the run-up to elections in efforts to bring Basque separatism to the head of the political agenda. Zapatero was elected four years ago partly as a result of a protest vote against the then PP government's handling of the aftermath of the Madrid bombings of March 11 2004, in which 191 people were killed and 1,800 injured.The PP government had initially tried to blame Eta for the attacks, despite evidence that Islamists were responsible. Three days later the Socialists swept to power. It was not clear yesterday what effect this latest killing would have on the election, which they are expected to win by a slim majority.Politicians from all parties called on Spaniards to show their rejection of Eta by turning out to vote in large numbers. Juan Jose Ibarretxe, president of the Basque regional government, said: \"We refuse to make a political interpretation of this murder two days before the elections because that would give Eta a political role that it ... doesn't deserve.\" Polls in the Basque country show that about a third of the 2 million population support independence, but only a tiny percentage back Eta's tactics.The group, which has killed more than 800 people in a 40-year campaign for Basque independence, is classified as a terrorist group by the US and EU.Eta declared a permanent ceasefire in March 2006, and began negotiating with the government in an attempt to bring an end to the conflict. But the ceasefire was formally called off last June and Eta killed two Spanish undercover policemen in France in December. According to Basque police Carrasco, a former councillor with the Socialists, had rejected the bodyguards traditionally provided to politicians in the Basque country. He lived with his wife and three children away from the centre of the town, making him an easy target.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Eta", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cancels election rallies after murder"},{"date": "2008-02-10T02:04:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Russian mafia hitmen shot dead Dublin gangland member Paddy Doyle on the Costa del Sol, senior gardai claimed this weekendDoyle, the survivor of a vicious criminal turf war in south Dublin which has claimed at least 10 lives, was gunned down in Estepona last Monday. Veteran detectives with the Garda Siochana's 'Operation Anvil', the drive against Dublin's crime gangs, said the 27-year-old had beaten up a close relative of a Russian mafia leader based on the southern Spanish coastline. 'From what our Spanish colleagues have told us, this was a professional Russian hit. There were 13 shots and we don't think they wasted a bullet. It has a military-trained assassin written all over it, possibly ex-special forces,' a senior detective told The Observer. 'The intelligence coming back from the Costa del Sol is that Paddy Doyle crossed the Russian mafia, which is something you do there at your peril.'The officer said shortly after Christmas Doyle got involved in a brawl with a young Russian man whom he severely beat up. Unknown to Doyle, the man was related to a senior Russian mafia figure. True to form, on a warm afternoon in one of Spain's most popular destinations for tourists and holiday-home owners, vengeance was exacted in a ruthless fashion.Doyle, a career criminal, had been the chief suspect in two murders carried out in his native city in 2002 and 2005. He had eluded the gardai and went on the run via Liverpool, Manchester and eventually the favoured destination for many of Ireland's crime lords, Spain's Costa del Sol. From there he helped run a drugs empire smuggling vast amounts of cocaine from Spain into Ireland.But around 2pm last Monday, Doyle finally met his match. He was travelling in the front passenger seat of a BMW 4X4 driven by one Gary Hutch. As Hutch drove the car towards La Cancelada outside Estepona they were ambushed. According to eyewitnesses two men from a green car opened fire, smashing the windscreen and hitting the passenger door. Hutch crashed the car and he and Doyle ran for cover. What happened next demonstrated a clinical, military-style ruthlessness on behalf of the attackers. One of the gunmen singled out Doyle and shot him at least twice in the head. At least 13 bullets were fired at Doyle who died at the scene. A terrified Hutch, meanwhile, crouched in terror and waited until the gunmen had left before presenting himself at a local police station.Reports back in Ireland tried to link Doyle's murder to the feud between two criminal gangs that have been at war in the Crumlin-Drimnagh districts of south Dublin since 2001. However, a senior Garda officer and veteran of the force's 'Operation Anvil' revealed the real identity of Doyle's assassins - the Russian mafia.Less than 24 hours after Doyle's murder, cocaine valued at about \u20ac9.2million was seized by Spanish police in Estepona close to the shooting. Doyle was on his way to meet a British criminal when his car was ambushed and this triggered speculation that his death was linked to the drugs haul, in which an Irishman was one of eight arrested. But back in Dublin the officer with intimate knowledge of Doyle and his gang insisted there was a more prosaic reason for his demise.'Doyle was typical of the third generation of gangland \"soldier\" from Dublin. He was aggressive, showy and started fights at a whim. He and his ilk are unlike the older Irish criminal types on the Costa who live a very quiet life and just get on with their business. Our intelligence suggests Doyle simply crossed the people you don't cross on the Costa, the Russians.'", "tags": ["Ireland", "Russia", "Spain", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "Russians kill Dublin drugs lord in Spain"},{"date": "2008-01-04T12:51:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Four hundred years ago, Don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra wrote: \"Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.\" The advice didn't help Don Quixote de la Mancha much, but I'm hoping it will help my six Mallorcan students and me as we embark upon our first language lessons together. After completing two weeks of intensive Spanish lessons, I am only too aware of the potential difficulties ahead in my role as a trainee teacher.Three of my students work within the tourism industry and want to learn English in order to progress within their chosen careers. Jorge and In\u00e9z are local hotel workers, while Erika is a German tourist representative from Cologne. As my students know the elementary rules of the English language, I decide to focus on vocabulary that will prove useful for both the hotel workers and the students learning English for other reasons.The six pupils seem nervous in the stifling heat of a June Mallorcan morning. Resolutely, I remove the first object from my suitcase: a hotel reception bell. Its high-pitched \"Ding!\" quickly draws curious looks and laughter from my students, followed by rapid chatter between an elderly man and a young woman in Catalan. I wonder if they are questioning my sanity.We run over the vocabulary necessary for making a hotel reservation, including room types and the length of stay. Most of all, my students want to be able to use their new vocabulary during conversations, so the lesson focuses on speaking. Split into three pairs, I distribute prepared cards that illustrate the kind of reservation required - with bathroom, breakfast included, sea view, etc - which encourages the learners to make specific requests in complete sentences.Marta and Erika seem the strongest students from the group, so I ask them to demonstrate, one acting as the reservations clerk, the other as the customer. The latter hits the bell in a scene reminiscent of Faulty Towers, and the students clearly enjoy the role-play and the language it enables them to use.While reflecting on the highs and lows of my first lesson, I am struck by the disparities among the students in terms of age, profession, gender and national origin. I need to provide an opportunity that will allow social engagement during the learning experience. The topic fit for purpose is food.As I wait for my students to arrive for the next lesson, I pull the second resource from my suitcase: a collection of British food-magazine articles and clippings. Following the test-teach-test method, I introduce my students to the names of local and international foodstuffs using pictures, restaurant menus and some realia. In particular, we focus on ordering in a restaurant setting in pairs, one student acting as the customer and the other as the waiter.Speaking from my own experience, a strong motivation for learning a new language is a desire to understand the culture in which the language is spoken. For that reason, I introduce and explain some traditional British food, which my students in the hospitality industry are already familiar with. But some of the other students are surprised to discover that curry has become a staple of the British diet.As it is lunchtime, we move on to the final component of my lesson: the sandwich shop. I spread my real ingredients on a long table, together with plates and cutlery brought from the school kitchen. I mix up the pairs, inviting three of the students to act as sandwich makers and the other three learners to act as customers. Using the vocabulary and sentences they have just learned, the students make sandwiches and salads for one another.Marta - a university student and part-time waitress - particularly enjoys this activity as it engages her kinesthetic learning style. To my delight, my students sit down and get to know one another over lunch, before heading home for a siesta.The following week, Palma de Mallorca is stifling, the island and its residents enveloped by heat. While Mallorca's glorious weather is one of the main attractions for many tourists, it makes for an uncomfortable learning environment. At the outset of my third lesson, Alejandro - a 72-year-old retired construction worker - suggests we meet early in the morning for our remaining lesson. In the meantime, we focus on a topic of universal interest: the weather.Although my students are in the early stages of learning English, I show an online BBC weather forecast in order to introduce some of the vocabulary. Again, my students are keen to speak, so after using a simple worksheet reinforcing weather conditions, I pull more resources from my suitcase: a giant wall map of Scotland and some weather symbols. I show my students where the main cities of Scotland are located and then ask them to write a short weather forecast in pairs, which they will present to the rest of the class. Of course, students are keen to use the most unusual weather predictions, resulting in hailstones in Glasgow, and thunder and lightning in Edinburgh.I am pleased because two of the less forthcoming class members - Alejandro and Adri\u00e1n, an administrator at the Universitat de les Illes Balears - are much more confident today when speaking in English in front of their classmates. But overall, the class is much less energetic than on previous occasions, although I suspect this may be down to the heat.My previous lessons have all been classroom-based, which seems a shame given the surrounding landscape. I am also conscious of the fact that I have not delivered any lessons that have engaged my audio learners. In order to rectify this, I send my students on a fact-finding mission in Palma de Mallorca, the hometown of three of my learners.Split into two teams of three, I give both groups a small tape recorder, which contains details of the separate routes they must take and the information they must gather: the number of restaurants located on Avigunda Jaume III, the cost of a two-night stay in an double room with bathroom in the Hotel Saratoga, the chicken dishes served at Ca'n Carlos, and the dates one can rent a boat from the harbour. My students complete the task surprisingly quickly, with Team B - named RCD Mallorca after the local football team - returning to the language centre first. While we wait for Team A, In\u00e9z - a receptionist at a small hotel on the island - comments on how differently one views the city from a tourist's perspective, a point that we later discuss as a group.This is my final lesson with this group of students, and I feel somewhat flat. Alejandro smiles as he hands me a small card in an envelope, and my students wave as they leave the classroom for the final time. I remove the street map I had been using from the notice board and return it to my suitcase. Slowly, I open the card. It reads:Dear Kata,Turn right as you exit the school. Take the third street on the left and cross the bridge. Turn right down Avinguda Santa Maria and you will arrive at house 22.Regards,Alejandro, In\u00e9z, Marta, Jorge, Erika and Adri\u00e1nI walk, card in hand, and arrive at an unassuming home on a back street of Palma de Mallorca. I'm about to knock at the door when a pair of wooden shutters open on the third floor. An elderly women looks down at me and grins. \"Un momento, por favor,\" she calls, and I can hear footsteps from within. The door opens and Alejandro emerges into the dazzling sunlight wearing his beloved RCD Mallorca shirt, beckoning me to enter. I find my five students seated around the kitchen table, and realise that my experience as a trainee teacher has not only aided my personal development, both as a person and as a practitioner, but it has also established cross-cultural relationships, irrespective of factors such as age, nationality, gender and language.\"I hope you like curry,\" grins Alejandro.\u00b7 This piece was entered for the Suzanne Furstner Foundation scholarship award. Click here for more details", "tags": ["Tefl", "Education"], "title": "Six weeks in Spain"},{"date": "2008-03-08T01:03:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's political parties suspended campaigning in advance of tomorrow's general election after a former town councillor was shot dead yesterday by suspected Basque separatists.Isaias Carrasco, 42, was killed when he left the home he shared with his wife and three children in the Basque town of Mondrag\u00f3n at about 1.30pm.His wife and daughter came running out when they heard the shots. Carrasco was rushed to a local hospital, but died shortly after. He had been shot several times, twice in the back of his head, by a lone gunman, who witnesses said was wearing a false beard, while a driver waited in a getaway carAt a press conference in Madrid the Socialist party prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, pledged to track down the killers. \"The terrorists have today tried to interfere in the peaceful manifestation of the will of the people at the polls,\" he said. \"Eta has already been defeated by democracy - rejected and isolated by Spaniards as a whole and by Basque society ... its members have no other future than jail.\" Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the interior minister, also blamed Eta for the killing, the fifth by the group since a ceasefire was broken in 2006. \"This is a vile and cowardly act which deserves our total rejection,\" he said. Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy, the leader of the opposition Popular party (PP), agreed to suspend their final rallies due to be held last night.Spain had been on alert for a terrorist attack during the campaign.Last month Perez Rubalcaba said he expected Eta to attempt a deadly attack. Since 1977, Eta has killed 20 people in the run-up to elections in efforts to bring Basque separatism to the head of the political agenda. Zapatero was elected four years ago partly as a result of a protest vote against the then PP government's handling of the aftermath of the Madrid bombings of March 11 2004, in which 191 people were killed and 1,800 injured.The PP government had initially tried to blame Eta for the attacks, despite evidence that Islamists were responsible. Three days later the Socialists swept to power. It was not clear yesterday what effect this latest killing would have on the election, which they are expected to win by a slim majority.Politicians from all parties called on Spaniards to show their rejection of Eta by turning out to vote in large numbers. Juan Jose Ibarretxe, president of the Basque regional government, said: \"We refuse to make a political interpretation of this murder two days before the elections because that would give Eta a political role that it ... doesn't deserve.\" Polls in the Basque country show that about a third of the 2 million population support independence, but only a tiny percentage back Eta's tactics.The group, which has killed more than 800 people in a 40-year campaign for Basque independence, is classified as a terrorist group by the US and EU.Eta declared a permanent ceasefire in March 2006, and began negotiating with the government in an attempt to bring an end to the conflict. But the ceasefire was formally called off last June and Eta killed two Spanish undercover policemen in France in December. According to Basque police Carrasco, a former councillor with the Socialists, had rejected the bodyguards traditionally provided to politicians in the Basque country. He lived with his wife and three children away from the centre of the town, making him an easy target.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Eta", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cancels election rallies after murder"},{"date": "2008-02-10T02:04:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Russian mafia hitmen shot dead Dublin gangland member Paddy Doyle on the Costa del Sol, senior gardai claimed this weekendDoyle, the survivor of a vicious criminal turf war in south Dublin which has claimed at least 10 lives, was gunned down in Estepona last Monday. Veteran detectives with the Garda Siochana's 'Operation Anvil', the drive against Dublin's crime gangs, said the 27-year-old had beaten up a close relative of a Russian mafia leader based on the southern Spanish coastline. 'From what our Spanish colleagues have told us, this was a professional Russian hit. There were 13 shots and we don't think they wasted a bullet. It has a military-trained assassin written all over it, possibly ex-special forces,' a senior detective told The Observer. 'The intelligence coming back from the Costa del Sol is that Paddy Doyle crossed the Russian mafia, which is something you do there at your peril.'The officer said shortly after Christmas Doyle got involved in a brawl with a young Russian man whom he severely beat up. Unknown to Doyle, the man was related to a senior Russian mafia figure. True to form, on a warm afternoon in one of Spain's most popular destinations for tourists and holiday-home owners, vengeance was exacted in a ruthless fashion.Doyle, a career criminal, had been the chief suspect in two murders carried out in his native city in 2002 and 2005. He had eluded the gardai and went on the run via Liverpool, Manchester and eventually the favoured destination for many of Ireland's crime lords, Spain's Costa del Sol. From there he helped run a drugs empire smuggling vast amounts of cocaine from Spain into Ireland.But around 2pm last Monday, Doyle finally met his match. He was travelling in the front passenger seat of a BMW 4X4 driven by one Gary Hutch. As Hutch drove the car towards La Cancelada outside Estepona they were ambushed. According to eyewitnesses two men from a green car opened fire, smashing the windscreen and hitting the passenger door. Hutch crashed the car and he and Doyle ran for cover. What happened next demonstrated a clinical, military-style ruthlessness on behalf of the attackers. One of the gunmen singled out Doyle and shot him at least twice in the head. At least 13 bullets were fired at Doyle who died at the scene. A terrified Hutch, meanwhile, crouched in terror and waited until the gunmen had left before presenting himself at a local police station.Reports back in Ireland tried to link Doyle's murder to the feud between two criminal gangs that have been at war in the Crumlin-Drimnagh districts of south Dublin since 2001. However, a senior Garda officer and veteran of the force's 'Operation Anvil' revealed the real identity of Doyle's assassins - the Russian mafia.Less than 24 hours after Doyle's murder, cocaine valued at about \u20ac9.2million was seized by Spanish police in Estepona close to the shooting. Doyle was on his way to meet a British criminal when his car was ambushed and this triggered speculation that his death was linked to the drugs haul, in which an Irishman was one of eight arrested. But back in Dublin the officer with intimate knowledge of Doyle and his gang insisted there was a more prosaic reason for his demise.'Doyle was typical of the third generation of gangland \"soldier\" from Dublin. He was aggressive, showy and started fights at a whim. He and his ilk are unlike the older Irish criminal types on the Costa who live a very quiet life and just get on with their business. Our intelligence suggests Doyle simply crossed the people you don't cross on the Costa, the Russians.'", "tags": ["Ireland", "Russia", "Spain", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "Russians kill Dublin drugs lord in Spain"},{"date": "2008-01-28T17:40:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "OK! magazine will launch a Spanish-language edition later this year, striking into the heartland of rival celebrity weekly Hello!.Parent company Northern & Shell and Spanish publisher Grupo Zeta will form joint venture company OK! Ediciones to publish the 16th international edition of OK! in four years.Rival Hello! magazine was first published as \u00a1Hola! in Spain.\"Having a Spanish edition has long been an ambition of ours. Spain is the original home of celebrity publishing, but most existing titles have an aging and dwindling readership. It's exciting for us to bring to market an approach that is proven to appeal to younger readers,\" said Christian Toksvig, the Northern & Shell international operations director.\"OK! magazine is taking on its downmarket rival Hello! in its home territory by launching an edition in Spain,\" is how the Daily Express, also owned by Northern & Shell, reported the development today.Grupo Zeta launched Cuore, the third best-selling magazine in Spain, in 2006. Established in 1976, Cuore publishes a dozen daily newspapers and more than 40 magazines including news weekly Tiempo.After it starts publishing in Spain later this year, OK! will appear in 18 countries.Earlier this month, OK! launched in Turkey.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Northern & Shell", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Consumer magazines", "Magazines"], "title": "OK! launches Spanish edition"},{"date": "2008-01-04T12:51:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Four hundred years ago, Don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra wrote: \"Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.\" The advice didn't help Don Quixote de la Mancha much, but I'm hoping it will help my six Mallorcan students and me as we embark upon our first language lessons together. After completing two weeks of intensive Spanish lessons, I am only too aware of the potential difficulties ahead in my role as a trainee teacher.Three of my students work within the tourism industry and want to learn English in order to progress within their chosen careers. Jorge and In\u00e9z are local hotel workers, while Erika is a German tourist representative from Cologne. As my students know the elementary rules of the English language, I decide to focus on vocabulary that will prove useful for both the hotel workers and the students learning English for other reasons.The six pupils seem nervous in the stifling heat of a June Mallorcan morning. Resolutely, I remove the first object from my suitcase: a hotel reception bell. Its high-pitched \"Ding!\" quickly draws curious looks and laughter from my students, followed by rapid chatter between an elderly man and a young woman in Catalan. I wonder if they are questioning my sanity.We run over the vocabulary necessary for making a hotel reservation, including room types and the length of stay. Most of all, my students want to be able to use their new vocabulary during conversations, so the lesson focuses on speaking. Split into three pairs, I distribute prepared cards that illustrate the kind of reservation required - with bathroom, breakfast included, sea view, etc - which encourages the learners to make specific requests in complete sentences.Marta and Erika seem the strongest students from the group, so I ask them to demonstrate, one acting as the reservations clerk, the other as the customer. The latter hits the bell in a scene reminiscent of Faulty Towers, and the students clearly enjoy the role-play and the language it enables them to use.While reflecting on the highs and lows of my first lesson, I am struck by the disparities among the students in terms of age, profession, gender and national origin. I need to provide an opportunity that will allow social engagement during the learning experience. The topic fit for purpose is food.As I wait for my students to arrive for the next lesson, I pull the second resource from my suitcase: a collection of British food-magazine articles and clippings. Following the test-teach-test method, I introduce my students to the names of local and international foodstuffs using pictures, restaurant menus and some realia. In particular, we focus on ordering in a restaurant setting in pairs, one student acting as the customer and the other as the waiter.Speaking from my own experience, a strong motivation for learning a new language is a desire to understand the culture in which the language is spoken. For that reason, I introduce and explain some traditional British food, which my students in the hospitality industry are already familiar with. But some of the other students are surprised to discover that curry has become a staple of the British diet.As it is lunchtime, we move on to the final component of my lesson: the sandwich shop. I spread my real ingredients on a long table, together with plates and cutlery brought from the school kitchen. I mix up the pairs, inviting three of the students to act as sandwich makers and the other three learners to act as customers. Using the vocabulary and sentences they have just learned, the students make sandwiches and salads for one another.Marta - a university student and part-time waitress - particularly enjoys this activity as it engages her kinesthetic learning style. To my delight, my students sit down and get to know one another over lunch, before heading home for a siesta.The following week, Palma de Mallorca is stifling, the island and its residents enveloped by heat. While Mallorca's glorious weather is one of the main attractions for many tourists, it makes for an uncomfortable learning environment. At the outset of my third lesson, Alejandro - a 72-year-old retired construction worker - suggests we meet early in the morning for our remaining lesson. In the meantime, we focus on a topic of universal interest: the weather.Although my students are in the early stages of learning English, I show an online BBC weather forecast in order to introduce some of the vocabulary. Again, my students are keen to speak, so after using a simple worksheet reinforcing weather conditions, I pull more resources from my suitcase: a giant wall map of Scotland and some weather symbols. I show my students where the main cities of Scotland are located and then ask them to write a short weather forecast in pairs, which they will present to the rest of the class. Of course, students are keen to use the most unusual weather predictions, resulting in hailstones in Glasgow, and thunder and lightning in Edinburgh.I am pleased because two of the less forthcoming class members - Alejandro and Adri\u00e1n, an administrator at the Universitat de les Illes Balears - are much more confident today when speaking in English in front of their classmates. But overall, the class is much less energetic than on previous occasions, although I suspect this may be down to the heat.My previous lessons have all been classroom-based, which seems a shame given the surrounding landscape. I am also conscious of the fact that I have not delivered any lessons that have engaged my audio learners. In order to rectify this, I send my students on a fact-finding mission in Palma de Mallorca, the hometown of three of my learners.Split into two teams of three, I give both groups a small tape recorder, which contains details of the separate routes they must take and the information they must gather: the number of restaurants located on Avigunda Jaume III, the cost of a two-night stay in an double room with bathroom in the Hotel Saratoga, the chicken dishes served at Ca'n Carlos, and the dates one can rent a boat from the harbour. My students complete the task surprisingly quickly, with Team B - named RCD Mallorca after the local football team - returning to the language centre first. While we wait for Team A, In\u00e9z - a receptionist at a small hotel on the island - comments on how differently one views the city from a tourist's perspective, a point that we later discuss as a group.This is my final lesson with this group of students, and I feel somewhat flat. Alejandro smiles as he hands me a small card in an envelope, and my students wave as they leave the classroom for the final time. I remove the street map I had been using from the notice board and return it to my suitcase. Slowly, I open the card. It reads:Dear Kata,Turn right as you exit the school. Take the third street on the left and cross the bridge. Turn right down Avinguda Santa Maria and you will arrive at house 22.Regards,Alejandro, In\u00e9z, Marta, Jorge, Erika and Adri\u00e1nI walk, card in hand, and arrive at an unassuming home on a back street of Palma de Mallorca. I'm about to knock at the door when a pair of wooden shutters open on the third floor. An elderly women looks down at me and grins. \"Un momento, por favor,\" she calls, and I can hear footsteps from within. The door opens and Alejandro emerges into the dazzling sunlight wearing his beloved RCD Mallorca shirt, beckoning me to enter. I find my five students seated around the kitchen table, and realise that my experience as a trainee teacher has not only aided my personal development, both as a person and as a practitioner, but it has also established cross-cultural relationships, irrespective of factors such as age, nationality, gender and language.\"I hope you like curry,\" grins Alejandro.\u00b7 This piece was entered for the Suzanne Furstner Foundation scholarship award. Click here for more details", "tags": ["Tefl", "Education"], "title": "Six weeks in Spain"},{"date": "2008-03-08T01:03:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's political parties suspended campaigning in advance of tomorrow's general election after a former town councillor was shot dead yesterday by suspected Basque separatists.Isaias Carrasco, 42, was killed when he left the home he shared with his wife and three children in the Basque town of Mondrag\u00f3n at about 1.30pm.His wife and daughter came running out when they heard the shots. Carrasco was rushed to a local hospital, but died shortly after. He had been shot several times, twice in the back of his head, by a lone gunman, who witnesses said was wearing a false beard, while a driver waited in a getaway carAt a press conference in Madrid the Socialist party prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, pledged to track down the killers. \"The terrorists have today tried to interfere in the peaceful manifestation of the will of the people at the polls,\" he said. \"Eta has already been defeated by democracy - rejected and isolated by Spaniards as a whole and by Basque society ... its members have no other future than jail.\" Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the interior minister, also blamed Eta for the killing, the fifth by the group since a ceasefire was broken in 2006. \"This is a vile and cowardly act which deserves our total rejection,\" he said. Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy, the leader of the opposition Popular party (PP), agreed to suspend their final rallies due to be held last night.Spain had been on alert for a terrorist attack during the campaign.Last month Perez Rubalcaba said he expected Eta to attempt a deadly attack. Since 1977, Eta has killed 20 people in the run-up to elections in efforts to bring Basque separatism to the head of the political agenda. Zapatero was elected four years ago partly as a result of a protest vote against the then PP government's handling of the aftermath of the Madrid bombings of March 11 2004, in which 191 people were killed and 1,800 injured.The PP government had initially tried to blame Eta for the attacks, despite evidence that Islamists were responsible. Three days later the Socialists swept to power. It was not clear yesterday what effect this latest killing would have on the election, which they are expected to win by a slim majority.Politicians from all parties called on Spaniards to show their rejection of Eta by turning out to vote in large numbers. Juan Jose Ibarretxe, president of the Basque regional government, said: \"We refuse to make a political interpretation of this murder two days before the elections because that would give Eta a political role that it ... doesn't deserve.\" Polls in the Basque country show that about a third of the 2 million population support independence, but only a tiny percentage back Eta's tactics.The group, which has killed more than 800 people in a 40-year campaign for Basque independence, is classified as a terrorist group by the US and EU.Eta declared a permanent ceasefire in March 2006, and began negotiating with the government in an attempt to bring an end to the conflict. But the ceasefire was formally called off last June and Eta killed two Spanish undercover policemen in France in December. According to Basque police Carrasco, a former councillor with the Socialists, had rejected the bodyguards traditionally provided to politicians in the Basque country. He lived with his wife and three children away from the centre of the town, making him an easy target.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Eta", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cancels election rallies after murder"},{"date": "2008-02-10T02:04:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Russian mafia hitmen shot dead Dublin gangland member Paddy Doyle on the Costa del Sol, senior gardai claimed this weekendDoyle, the survivor of a vicious criminal turf war in south Dublin which has claimed at least 10 lives, was gunned down in Estepona last Monday. Veteran detectives with the Garda Siochana's 'Operation Anvil', the drive against Dublin's crime gangs, said the 27-year-old had beaten up a close relative of a Russian mafia leader based on the southern Spanish coastline. 'From what our Spanish colleagues have told us, this was a professional Russian hit. There were 13 shots and we don't think they wasted a bullet. It has a military-trained assassin written all over it, possibly ex-special forces,' a senior detective told The Observer. 'The intelligence coming back from the Costa del Sol is that Paddy Doyle crossed the Russian mafia, which is something you do there at your peril.'The officer said shortly after Christmas Doyle got involved in a brawl with a young Russian man whom he severely beat up. Unknown to Doyle, the man was related to a senior Russian mafia figure. True to form, on a warm afternoon in one of Spain's most popular destinations for tourists and holiday-home owners, vengeance was exacted in a ruthless fashion.Doyle, a career criminal, had been the chief suspect in two murders carried out in his native city in 2002 and 2005. He had eluded the gardai and went on the run via Liverpool, Manchester and eventually the favoured destination for many of Ireland's crime lords, Spain's Costa del Sol. From there he helped run a drugs empire smuggling vast amounts of cocaine from Spain into Ireland.But around 2pm last Monday, Doyle finally met his match. He was travelling in the front passenger seat of a BMW 4X4 driven by one Gary Hutch. As Hutch drove the car towards La Cancelada outside Estepona they were ambushed. According to eyewitnesses two men from a green car opened fire, smashing the windscreen and hitting the passenger door. Hutch crashed the car and he and Doyle ran for cover. What happened next demonstrated a clinical, military-style ruthlessness on behalf of the attackers. One of the gunmen singled out Doyle and shot him at least twice in the head. At least 13 bullets were fired at Doyle who died at the scene. A terrified Hutch, meanwhile, crouched in terror and waited until the gunmen had left before presenting himself at a local police station.Reports back in Ireland tried to link Doyle's murder to the feud between two criminal gangs that have been at war in the Crumlin-Drimnagh districts of south Dublin since 2001. However, a senior Garda officer and veteran of the force's 'Operation Anvil' revealed the real identity of Doyle's assassins - the Russian mafia.Less than 24 hours after Doyle's murder, cocaine valued at about \u20ac9.2million was seized by Spanish police in Estepona close to the shooting. Doyle was on his way to meet a British criminal when his car was ambushed and this triggered speculation that his death was linked to the drugs haul, in which an Irishman was one of eight arrested. But back in Dublin the officer with intimate knowledge of Doyle and his gang insisted there was a more prosaic reason for his demise.'Doyle was typical of the third generation of gangland \"soldier\" from Dublin. He was aggressive, showy and started fights at a whim. He and his ilk are unlike the older Irish criminal types on the Costa who live a very quiet life and just get on with their business. Our intelligence suggests Doyle simply crossed the people you don't cross on the Costa, the Russians.'", "tags": ["Ireland", "Russia", "Spain", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Organised crime", "Europe"], "title": "Russians kill Dublin drugs lord in Spain"},{"date": "2008-01-28T17:40:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "OK! magazine will launch a Spanish-language edition later this year, striking into the heartland of rival celebrity weekly Hello!.Parent company Northern & Shell and Spanish publisher Grupo Zeta will form joint venture company OK! Ediciones to publish the 16th international edition of OK! in four years.Rival Hello! magazine was first published as \u00a1Hola! in Spain.\"Having a Spanish edition has long been an ambition of ours. Spain is the original home of celebrity publishing, but most existing titles have an aging and dwindling readership. It's exciting for us to bring to market an approach that is proven to appeal to younger readers,\" said Christian Toksvig, the Northern & Shell international operations director.\"OK! magazine is taking on its downmarket rival Hello! in its home territory by launching an edition in Spain,\" is how the Daily Express, also owned by Northern & Shell, reported the development today.Grupo Zeta launched Cuore, the third best-selling magazine in Spain, in 2006. Established in 1976, Cuore publishes a dozen daily newspapers and more than 40 magazines including news weekly Tiempo.After it starts publishing in Spain later this year, OK! will appear in 18 countries.Earlier this month, OK! launched in Turkey.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Northern & Shell", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Consumer magazines", "Magazines"], "title": "OK! launches Spanish edition"},{"date": "2008-01-09T13:36:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Edward Fitzgerald, QC, made the plea as he represented the pair at City of Westminster magistrates court.Spain accuses Jamil el-Banna, 45, and Omar Deghayes, 38, of membership of an al-Qaida cell in Madrid, but Fitzgerald claimed it would be an \"obvious injustice\" for proceedings against them to continue.They were reunited with their families in the UK last month after nearly five years in captivity, but were immediately served with European arrest warrants following an extradition request from Spain.Fitzgerald told the court: \"The Spanish authorities are deeply implicated in the ordeal of the last five years.\"They acquiesced to, and facilitated, their interrogation at Guant\u00e1namo and indeed participated in that interrogation process.\"They took no steps or adequate steps to say 'we want them for trial in Spain'. They left them to be interrogated in Guant\u00e1namo, and now - after they have been exonerated by US authorities, after English police have said they don't wish to bring any charges - the Spanish authorities are saying, 'we want to question them on the self same charges'.\"Spain alleges Banna and Deghayes belonged to the cell which provided members to train in terror camps in Afghanistan and Indonesia. The cell was also alleged to have raised funds for terrorism and to have spread al-Qaida propaganda.Fitzgerald claimed it would be an \"obvious oppression\" to \"now extradite them for the same allegations that have been fully investigated in Guant\u00e1namo\".David Perry, representing the Spanish government, said Spain was \"a trusted and valued proven partner\". \"They are not wanted for questioning. They are wanted for the accusation of belonging to a Spanish terrorist group which was the al-Qaida terrorist group in Spain operating through the late 90s and into 2003.\"British counter-terrorism police have already questioned the men and decided they should not be charged with any offence. The senior district judge, Timothy Workman, extended the pair's bail, which includes stringent conditions such as wearing an electronic tag and obeying curfews. He ordered the men to return for a further hearing at the same court on February 14.", "tags": ["UK news", "Spain", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "World news", "Extradition", "US politics", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Former Guant\u00e1namo detainees fight extradition to Spain"},{"date": "2008-06-20T12:35:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "For most of the 33 years since General Franco died the memories of his pernicious dictatorship have been swept under the carpet. Slowly that is changing. Now the process has gone 2.0, so to speak, with the public being asked to help identify the Rojo Archives - 3,000 poorly captioned photos showing the ruins of Madrid after the Franco bombardment.Whether you speak Spanish or not, you can browse the images to get an idea of the destruction.Along with the Archivo Rojo, the Museum of Historical Memory is due to open in Salamanca in 2011. [Here is a rough English translation of the story.] Wigs used to disguise a communist leader, censored poems and a list of prisoners to face the firing squad are among the artefacts likely to go on show from 157,000 boxes of archives. The boxes were saved by civil servants who ignored orders to destroy them.The archives are another step in Spain's remembering of its Franco years. After his death, Spain quietly got on with modernising itself. And it did it pretty successfully, despite the current economic dip.I've never heard my parents-in-law, who lived in Andalucia and Catalonia during the Franco years, talk about the 1936-39 civil war or what life was like in the following decades. Unlike, say, my grandparents who often evoked memories of wartime England.But in the past few years, things have begun to change. Local pressure from the relatives of people who disappeared has brought about the disinterment of mass graves.While the Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero - whose grandfather was shot by nationalist troops in the war - brought in the historical memories law making it easier, among other things, to remove Franco plaques and statues.", "tags": ["World news", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain remembers the pain"},{"date": "2008-06-20T12:35:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "For most of the 33 years since General Franco died the memories of his pernicious dictatorship have been swept under the carpet. Slowly that is changing. Now the process has gone 2.0, so to speak, with the public being asked to help identify the Rojo Archives - 3,000 poorly captioned photos showing the ruins of Madrid after the Franco bombardment.Whether you speak Spanish or not, you can browse the images to get an idea of the destruction.Along with the Archivo Rojo, the Museum of Historical Memory is due to open in Salamanca in 2011. [Here is a rough English translation of the story.] Wigs used to disguise a communist leader, censored poems and a list of prisoners to face the firing squad are among the artefacts likely to go on show from 157,000 boxes of archives. The boxes were saved by civil servants who ignored orders to destroy them.The archives are another step in Spain's remembering of its Franco years. After his death, Spain quietly got on with modernising itself. And it did it pretty successfully, despite the current economic dip.I've never heard my parents-in-law, who lived in Andalucia and Catalonia during the Franco years, talk about the 1936-39 civil war or what life was like in the following decades. Unlike, say, my grandparents who often evoked memories of wartime England.But in the past few years, things have begun to change. Local pressure from the relatives of people who disappeared has brought about the disinterment of mass graves.While the Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero - whose grandfather was shot by nationalist troops in the war - brought in the historical memories law making it easier, among other things, to remove Franco plaques and statues.", "tags": ["World news", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain remembers the pain"},{"date": "2008-04-04T07:17:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Thomasina in Spain. Photograph: PRThe surprising thing about Thomasina Miers' OFM award last week is that it was for \"cheap places to eat.\" You'd never guess that from the looks of her Mexican eatery, Wahaca - though I've only had a margerita and some guacamole there, it seemed to me the epitome of sombrero chic. But then, Thomasina Miers is full of surprises.I'd got to the point where I hated TV cookery programmes. They've become so palpably phoney, with insincere presenters more concerned with their egos than with eggs. And when their best-before date passes and they try to make a controversial comeback like dippy Delia, they do real harm to the cause of good food (and in Delia's case, to animal welfare standards as well). In this regard, Hugh and Jamie's recent efforts are exempted from my ennui, but life's too short even to reach for the remote to switch off Gordon or Roy Strong.Masterchef was high on my list of I've-got-something-more-exciting-to-do-than-watch-this, like reading theology textbooks, or counting backwards from 999,999 - until I saw the finals of the last series, and had the subversive thought: \"these contestants are real people, and I'm interested in what happens to them.\" Which is why I missed Thomasina Miers 2005 Masterchef victory. (By the way, the original Masterchef format was ripped off from the Observer/Mouton Cadet cookery competition of the 1980s.)I saw a bit of her first series, The Wild Gourmets, in which she and \"forager\" Guy Grieve cadged, shot, fished and trapped (or whatever) their grub, and cooked in equally primitive fashion. But I found it precious, and failed to see many parallels between what they were doing and what I do for food, which is to nurture our good butcher, patronise the local dairy, grow the veg I most like to eat, and try to remember to have the Aga serviced regularly.On the other hand, I've now see the first two hours of A Cook's Tour of Spain, the same pair's gastronomic swoosh through the country, and I love it - and especially her. Thomasina's unscripted genuine enthusiasm and, above all, her own curiosity about the ingredients she encounters and the people she mixes with are as convincing as the Diet Girls' recipes and Delia's packet-opening are not.I've made a TV series myself, and (although ours was princely by today's standards) I know that nothing inspires a presenter like having a low budget to work with - you're thrown back on your own resources (plus a few landscape shots) to entertain the viewers. And Thomasina rises beautifully to all occasions, hair flying, wonderful gappy smile beaming. Forgetting that she's called the bacon \"pancetta\" in one take, and \"tocino\" in the next simply adds to the helter-skelter charm. Seeing the blood and guts of the wild boar (though wasn't it actually a sow?) really put the stamp of authenticity on the production, as did her participation in the matanza in the earlier programme. Even Guy Grieves was a winner this week, as he bagged the quail and dispatched the boar so cleanly. Okay, this is nature red in tooth and claw - but you know, it is. Thomasina Miers has learned the real secret of good TV food programming - it has to be about the food, not about the person. With this series, Miers has made herself credible. How many TV cookery presenters ever manage that?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Television", "Culture", "Television industry", "Media", "Thomasina Miers", "Chefs", "Television & radio"], "title": "Tommi reigns in Spain"},{"date": "2008-06-20T12:35:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "For most of the 33 years since General Franco died the memories of his pernicious dictatorship have been swept under the carpet. Slowly that is changing. Now the process has gone 2.0, so to speak, with the public being asked to help identify the Rojo Archives - 3,000 poorly captioned photos showing the ruins of Madrid after the Franco bombardment.Whether you speak Spanish or not, you can browse the images to get an idea of the destruction.Along with the Archivo Rojo, the Museum of Historical Memory is due to open in Salamanca in 2011. [Here is a rough English translation of the story.] Wigs used to disguise a communist leader, censored poems and a list of prisoners to face the firing squad are among the artefacts likely to go on show from 157,000 boxes of archives. The boxes were saved by civil servants who ignored orders to destroy them.The archives are another step in Spain's remembering of its Franco years. After his death, Spain quietly got on with modernising itself. And it did it pretty successfully, despite the current economic dip.I've never heard my parents-in-law, who lived in Andalucia and Catalonia during the Franco years, talk about the 1936-39 civil war or what life was like in the following decades. Unlike, say, my grandparents who often evoked memories of wartime England.But in the past few years, things have begun to change. Local pressure from the relatives of people who disappeared has brought about the disinterment of mass graves.While the Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero - whose grandfather was shot by nationalist troops in the war - brought in the historical memories law making it easier, among other things, to remove Franco plaques and statues.", "tags": ["World news", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain remembers the pain"},{"date": "2008-04-04T07:17:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Thomasina in Spain. Photograph: PRThe surprising thing about Thomasina Miers' OFM award last week is that it was for \"cheap places to eat.\" You'd never guess that from the looks of her Mexican eatery, Wahaca - though I've only had a margerita and some guacamole there, it seemed to me the epitome of sombrero chic. But then, Thomasina Miers is full of surprises.I'd got to the point where I hated TV cookery programmes. They've become so palpably phoney, with insincere presenters more concerned with their egos than with eggs. And when their best-before date passes and they try to make a controversial comeback like dippy Delia, they do real harm to the cause of good food (and in Delia's case, to animal welfare standards as well). In this regard, Hugh and Jamie's recent efforts are exempted from my ennui, but life's too short even to reach for the remote to switch off Gordon or Roy Strong.Masterchef was high on my list of I've-got-something-more-exciting-to-do-than-watch-this, like reading theology textbooks, or counting backwards from 999,999 - until I saw the finals of the last series, and had the subversive thought: \"these contestants are real people, and I'm interested in what happens to them.\" Which is why I missed Thomasina Miers 2005 Masterchef victory. (By the way, the original Masterchef format was ripped off from the Observer/Mouton Cadet cookery competition of the 1980s.)I saw a bit of her first series, The Wild Gourmets, in which she and \"forager\" Guy Grieve cadged, shot, fished and trapped (or whatever) their grub, and cooked in equally primitive fashion. But I found it precious, and failed to see many parallels between what they were doing and what I do for food, which is to nurture our good butcher, patronise the local dairy, grow the veg I most like to eat, and try to remember to have the Aga serviced regularly.On the other hand, I've now see the first two hours of A Cook's Tour of Spain, the same pair's gastronomic swoosh through the country, and I love it - and especially her. Thomasina's unscripted genuine enthusiasm and, above all, her own curiosity about the ingredients she encounters and the people she mixes with are as convincing as the Diet Girls' recipes and Delia's packet-opening are not.I've made a TV series myself, and (although ours was princely by today's standards) I know that nothing inspires a presenter like having a low budget to work with - you're thrown back on your own resources (plus a few landscape shots) to entertain the viewers. And Thomasina rises beautifully to all occasions, hair flying, wonderful gappy smile beaming. Forgetting that she's called the bacon \"pancetta\" in one take, and \"tocino\" in the next simply adds to the helter-skelter charm. Seeing the blood and guts of the wild boar (though wasn't it actually a sow?) really put the stamp of authenticity on the production, as did her participation in the matanza in the earlier programme. Even Guy Grieves was a winner this week, as he bagged the quail and dispatched the boar so cleanly. Okay, this is nature red in tooth and claw - but you know, it is. Thomasina Miers has learned the real secret of good TV food programming - it has to be about the food, not about the person. With this series, Miers has made herself credible. How many TV cookery presenters ever manage that?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Television", "Culture", "Television industry", "Media", "Thomasina Miers", "Chefs", "Television & radio"], "title": "Tommi reigns in Spain"},{"date": "2008-05-28T22:41:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Kingdom of Spain includes the Canary Islands, the Balearics and two autonomous North African cities, Ceuta and Melilla. The Spanish also lay claim to a few rocks and islets on the Moroccan coast, including the unpopulated Isla Perejil (Parsley Island), which was briefly occupied by Moroccan soldiers in 2002. The soldiers were, in turn, captured by Spanish commandos, with support from the navy and the air force. The island is now deserted once more. It is estimated that 761,000 Britons live permanently in Spain.Spain shares its national motto - Plus Ultra (\"Further Beyond\") - with Sir Francis Bacon, the Colombian navy and Malden Catholic High School in Massachusetts. In the eighth century, virtually all of the Iberian peninsula fell under the control of the Umayyad Islamic empire. Although this dominance slowly receded over subsequent centuries, mass conversions meant that Muslims outnumbered Christians in the Muslim-controlled areas. The full reconquering of Spain by Catholic monarchs was not completed until 1492. The 1936 nationalist military revolt that touched off the Spanish civil war was begun with the broadcast of the words, \"Over all of Spain, the sky is clear.\" General Francisco Franco's first move was to seize control of Spain's Moroccan territory as his launch pad. Spanish flu, the name commonly given to the influenza strain that killed between 20 million and 100 million people in the 1918 pandemic, actually originated in Kansas in the US. Spain was merely the country it had spread to when it first came to widespread public attention.Every January 24 in the tiny Spanish village of Manganeses de la Polvorosa, they throw a goat out of the church tower to celebrate the feast of St Vincent the Martyr. Well, not every year - it was banned for being cruel in 1992, but reinstated in 1998 after protests by villagers. Then the practice was banned by the Spanish government in 2001. So actually Manganeses de la Polvorosa is now best known as the place where they don't throw a goat out of the church tower any more. But they used to, and they might again. Just so you know, the goats didn't die - the villagers caught them in a blanket - but they didn't exactly volunteer for the mission either. Contrary to what you might have heard, the rain in Spain falls mainly on the northern Atlantic coast. Here the average annual rainfall is between 800-1500mm, compared with a national average of just 640mm. It is not at all uncommon for Mediterranean Spain to receive less than 250mm.The Spanish Armada that set off to invade England in 1588 consisted of 130 ships, 8,000 sailors and 18,000 soldiers. Only 67 ships and 10,000 men managed to make it back to Spain.Spanish people are christened with two surnames: their father's first surname and their mother's first surname, with the father's first surname coming first. As a result, only the male surnames survive the process. When you answer the phone in Spain you say \"Digame\" which means \"Tell me.\"The term \"Spanish practices\", which refers to long-standing but unofficial working arrangements between employees and employers, such as routinely paying overtime for normal working hours, has nothing to do with Spain. In fact no one seems to know exactly why it's called that. Juan Carlos I has been king and head of state since Franco's death in 1975. He is also the hereditary king of Jerusalem. The Spanish Inquisition was an ecclesiastical tribunal set up by the Spanish monarchy in 1478 to police the orthodoxy of recent converts to Christianity, mostly Jews desperate to escape persecution. Only later did the Inquisition take to burning Protestants and witches. It was not finally abolished until 1834.The word tapas means lid in Spanish. According to legend the original tapas were slices of bread that drinkers put over their glasses to keep the flies out of their sherry.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Travel"], "title": "A mini guide to Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-04T23:06:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Walkers visiting the Costa Dorada in Catalonia can now book group day hikes in the nearby mountains of Muntayes de Prades, Serra del Montsant and Serra de Llaberia with Excursions.cat. A five-hour hike in the Muntayes de Prades covers a trail through abandoned mountain cottages, watery ravines and along the Brugent valley.\u00b7 0034 626 822 385, telefonica.net. Regular departures from \u20ac13pp.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Catalonia holidays"], "title": "Highland hiking in Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-04T23:06:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Walkers visiting the Costa Dorada in Catalonia can now book group day hikes in the nearby mountains of Muntayes de Prades, Serra del Montsant and Serra de Llaberia with Excursions.cat. A five-hour hike in the Muntayes de Prades covers a trail through abandoned mountain cottages, watery ravines and along the Brugent valley.\u00b7 0034 626 822 385, telefonica.net. Regular departures from \u20ac13pp.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Catalonia holidays"], "title": "Highland hiking in Spain"},{"date": "2008-08-20T13:30:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Almost a century has passed since Spanish intellectuals rallied to fight back against the \"black legend\" (la leyenda negra), but, as recent off-the-field events at the Olympics have shown, it is still casting a dark shadow over Europe. Only defined in 1914 by Juli\u00e1n Juder\u00edas, the \"black legend\" refers to the centuries-old idea of Spain possessing an intolerance and lust for blood unparalleled within Europe. Supported by the worst excesses of the Inquisition and the conquistadores, art, history and literature from the Enlightenment to Hemingway have presented the Spaniards as, at best romantic and simple folk, and at worst morally degenerate with unique sanguinary propensities. As with all legends, the notion that Spain is, uniquely \"ignorant, fanatical and inclined toward violent repression\" has some grounding in historical fact, but it was nevertheless fundamentally born out of the imperialistic propaganda of the 16th century.  Despite this, the image of Spain as a backward \"fragment of Africa, soldered so cruelly to inventive Europe\", as WH Auden put it, has endured to this day. Germany included, it is unlikely that any other country would be subjected to such allegations of inherent racism among its people on the back of a couple of ill-judged photos. Spain is, and always has been, \"different\".  Of course, it was only right that the Spanish athletes and sports officials should be condemned for their decision to make slit-eyed gestures prior to setting off for Beijing, particularly when Madrid is looking to host the Olympics within the next decade. Likewise, whether brought about by genuine racism or an ignorance of cultural considerations, it is pertinent that references to the abuse targeted at black players in La Liga or seen on the country's grand prix circuits were once again brought up. In terms of tackling racism in sport, Spain is indeed dragging its heels and needs to get its house in order.  However, the reactions of the past few days have more than occasionally gone beyond criticising the behaviour of individuals and those within the sporting arena and into the realms of national temperament, and yes, even race.  Media commentators and sports fans alike have put the incident down to unique backwardness of the Spanish people, of whom no more is to be expected. Spain is simply the Duke of Edinburgh of western Europe, to be simultaneously condemned and patronised. Writing in the Times, Rod Liddle observed that \"suddenly confronted with foreigners, the Spanish become unreconstructedly PC or magnificently obnoxious,\" with the country \"still last in the PC stakes\". Going further, Dom Joly in the Independent took this as an opportunity to roll out the usual stereotypes, alluding to Spaniards \"hurling donkeys off a church tower while laughing heinously\". Even in the Guardian, while Mark Tran argued that \"there is no point getting too worked up over this foolishness\", which he made sure to refer to only within the context of sporting events, a significant proportion of comments clearly concurred with Alexander Dumas's oft-quoted put-down that \"Africa begins in the Pyrenees\", though without the excuse of historical relativism.  \"Spain is not as advanced as Britain in its attitude to race sensitivity\", one reader noted, backed up by claims that \"many Spanish people are incredibly racist\", and that \"Spain is remarkably backward in this respect\", while there were also calls for a special diversity programme to be rolled out to \"help Spaniards control their racism\".  Such a reliance on sweeping generalisations is hardly likely to solve the problem that does exist and, in a week when the BNP enjoyed its annual jolly to the countryside and a London teenager died in an apparently racist stabbing, it may even prompt some Spaniards to dismiss genuine concerns as mere hypocrisy.  As the Spanish revisionist historian P\u00eda Moa once said:Going down this path, we might define England as the homeland of piracy and slave trafficking, which weighed so heavily in the nation's formation and prosperity.Just as it has been for hundreds of years, the idea of Spain being uniquely intolerant and backward may well be supported by individual examples of shortcomings, but is fundamentally unjustified. It has been argued that the drive to create a morally inferior \"other\" in the 16th century arose partly from the need to justify the shortcomings of the English, Dutch, and then the French empires. Should this still be the case, the endurance of the \"black legend\" looks all but guaranteed for the some time yet.", "tags": ["Spain", "Olympics 2008", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe", "Olympics"], "title": "David Hewitt: For Spain, the spectre of the 'black legend' has returned"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-04T23:06:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Walkers visiting the Costa Dorada in Catalonia can now book group day hikes in the nearby mountains of Muntayes de Prades, Serra del Montsant and Serra de Llaberia with Excursions.cat. A five-hour hike in the Muntayes de Prades covers a trail through abandoned mountain cottages, watery ravines and along the Brugent valley.\u00b7 0034 626 822 385, telefonica.net. Regular departures from \u20ac13pp.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Catalonia holidays"], "title": "Highland hiking in Spain"},{"date": "2008-08-20T13:30:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Almost a century has passed since Spanish intellectuals rallied to fight back against the \"black legend\" (la leyenda negra), but, as recent off-the-field events at the Olympics have shown, it is still casting a dark shadow over Europe. Only defined in 1914 by Juli\u00e1n Juder\u00edas, the \"black legend\" refers to the centuries-old idea of Spain possessing an intolerance and lust for blood unparalleled within Europe. Supported by the worst excesses of the Inquisition and the conquistadores, art, history and literature from the Enlightenment to Hemingway have presented the Spaniards as, at best romantic and simple folk, and at worst morally degenerate with unique sanguinary propensities. As with all legends, the notion that Spain is, uniquely \"ignorant, fanatical and inclined toward violent repression\" has some grounding in historical fact, but it was nevertheless fundamentally born out of the imperialistic propaganda of the 16th century.  Despite this, the image of Spain as a backward \"fragment of Africa, soldered so cruelly to inventive Europe\", as WH Auden put it, has endured to this day. Germany included, it is unlikely that any other country would be subjected to such allegations of inherent racism among its people on the back of a couple of ill-judged photos. Spain is, and always has been, \"different\".  Of course, it was only right that the Spanish athletes and sports officials should be condemned for their decision to make slit-eyed gestures prior to setting off for Beijing, particularly when Madrid is looking to host the Olympics within the next decade. Likewise, whether brought about by genuine racism or an ignorance of cultural considerations, it is pertinent that references to the abuse targeted at black players in La Liga or seen on the country's grand prix circuits were once again brought up. In terms of tackling racism in sport, Spain is indeed dragging its heels and needs to get its house in order.  However, the reactions of the past few days have more than occasionally gone beyond criticising the behaviour of individuals and those within the sporting arena and into the realms of national temperament, and yes, even race.  Media commentators and sports fans alike have put the incident down to unique backwardness of the Spanish people, of whom no more is to be expected. Spain is simply the Duke of Edinburgh of western Europe, to be simultaneously condemned and patronised. Writing in the Times, Rod Liddle observed that \"suddenly confronted with foreigners, the Spanish become unreconstructedly PC or magnificently obnoxious,\" with the country \"still last in the PC stakes\". Going further, Dom Joly in the Independent took this as an opportunity to roll out the usual stereotypes, alluding to Spaniards \"hurling donkeys off a church tower while laughing heinously\". Even in the Guardian, while Mark Tran argued that \"there is no point getting too worked up over this foolishness\", which he made sure to refer to only within the context of sporting events, a significant proportion of comments clearly concurred with Alexander Dumas's oft-quoted put-down that \"Africa begins in the Pyrenees\", though without the excuse of historical relativism.  \"Spain is not as advanced as Britain in its attitude to race sensitivity\", one reader noted, backed up by claims that \"many Spanish people are incredibly racist\", and that \"Spain is remarkably backward in this respect\", while there were also calls for a special diversity programme to be rolled out to \"help Spaniards control their racism\".  Such a reliance on sweeping generalisations is hardly likely to solve the problem that does exist and, in a week when the BNP enjoyed its annual jolly to the countryside and a London teenager died in an apparently racist stabbing, it may even prompt some Spaniards to dismiss genuine concerns as mere hypocrisy.  As the Spanish revisionist historian P\u00eda Moa once said:Going down this path, we might define England as the homeland of piracy and slave trafficking, which weighed so heavily in the nation's formation and prosperity.Just as it has been for hundreds of years, the idea of Spain being uniquely intolerant and backward may well be supported by individual examples of shortcomings, but is fundamentally unjustified. It has been argued that the drive to create a morally inferior \"other\" in the 16th century arose partly from the need to justify the shortcomings of the English, Dutch, and then the French empires. Should this still be the case, the endurance of the \"black legend\" looks all but guaranteed for the some time yet.", "tags": ["Spain", "Olympics 2008", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe", "Olympics"], "title": "David Hewitt: For Spain, the spectre of the 'black legend' has returned"},{"date": "2008-09-29T16:15:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Church of San Juan de los Caballeros was the perfect setting for a discussion of an English love affair with Spain, representing as it does the beauty of the old Catholic country that first seduced them. Part of this year's Hay festival in the Castilian town of Segovia, it saw three Englishmen explain how they ended up dedicating their lives to Spain. But the event told you almost as much about English identities as Spanish ones. Paul Preston, a lapsed Catholic, played the role of the working class Liverpudlian boy whose brilliance saw him win a scholarship to Oxford and rise to become the leading historian on 20th-century Spain. Giles Tremlett, the Guardian's man in Madrid and author of Ghosts of Spain, was the dashing foreign correspondent with the sharp eye for detail and a nice line in stories about his travels around the country. When he was younger his plan was to visit and live in a new country every three or four years, he says, \"but now I've been here in Spain for 18 years\".Michael Jacobs, author of numerous books on the country spanning two decades, was cast as romantic public schoolboy, wandering across Spain, sleeping on the side of the road, in a barn or wherever he found to lay his hat. Indeed, he says, arms windmilling with infectious enthusiasm, \"the first time I came to Segovia, I walked from Madrid, and ended up coming into the town on a donkey\". Since then, however, he has spent his time \"trying to battle those romantic stereotypes\".All three of them have been labelled \"hispanistas\" in their time, and none seem happy with the term. \"An hispanist is someone who is an expert in the Spanish language,\" says Preston, but somehow it has come to mean anyone interested in all things Spanish. In part that is because the press in Spain is fascinated by how outsiders see it and want to gather all those who write about the country into an exclusive club. \"Sometimes it seems that Spaniards think that British historians only study Spain,\" says Preston. But all agree that while the term might annoy them, it also has its advantages - it certainly gets people talking about their work in Spain.Preston's success is indicative of what many in Spain admire about a certain kind of Englishness. Each book he releases is a major event in Spain \u2013 his latest, We Saw Spain Die, is to be released in the UK next month \u2013 and as he wanders around Segovia, he's treated almost like a movie star. El Mundo newspaper even goes so far as to say that the festival only really came alive when Preston arrived.Preston is occasionally gruff and cynical, but very amusing, interspersing serious analysis with biting one-liners. Later that day he gives a lecture to a packed theatre, speaking for an hour in his perfect Spanish, about the impact of 1968 in Spain to a rapt audience. It is hard to think of many foreign historians who get this kind of treatment in the UK.Part of what the three men, from their very different perspectives, try to do is to provide a clear, unbiased vision of a country still marked by the fallout of the civil war and the Franco dictatorship. The right and the left, so scarred by events after 1936, find it hard to come to a consensus over the facts of what happened, let alone their interpretation, and this has had a long-lasting impact on modern politics. Sometimes it takes an outsider's eye to give an even-handed account of past and present.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Spain holidays", "Hay festival", "Travel writing"], "title": "An outsider's eye: three Englishmen in Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-04T23:06:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Walkers visiting the Costa Dorada in Catalonia can now book group day hikes in the nearby mountains of Muntayes de Prades, Serra del Montsant and Serra de Llaberia with Excursions.cat. A five-hour hike in the Muntayes de Prades covers a trail through abandoned mountain cottages, watery ravines and along the Brugent valley.\u00b7 0034 626 822 385, telefonica.net. Regular departures from \u20ac13pp.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Catalonia holidays"], "title": "Highland hiking in Spain"},{"date": "2008-08-20T13:30:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Almost a century has passed since Spanish intellectuals rallied to fight back against the \"black legend\" (la leyenda negra), but, as recent off-the-field events at the Olympics have shown, it is still casting a dark shadow over Europe. Only defined in 1914 by Juli\u00e1n Juder\u00edas, the \"black legend\" refers to the centuries-old idea of Spain possessing an intolerance and lust for blood unparalleled within Europe. Supported by the worst excesses of the Inquisition and the conquistadores, art, history and literature from the Enlightenment to Hemingway have presented the Spaniards as, at best romantic and simple folk, and at worst morally degenerate with unique sanguinary propensities. As with all legends, the notion that Spain is, uniquely \"ignorant, fanatical and inclined toward violent repression\" has some grounding in historical fact, but it was nevertheless fundamentally born out of the imperialistic propaganda of the 16th century.  Despite this, the image of Spain as a backward \"fragment of Africa, soldered so cruelly to inventive Europe\", as WH Auden put it, has endured to this day. Germany included, it is unlikely that any other country would be subjected to such allegations of inherent racism among its people on the back of a couple of ill-judged photos. Spain is, and always has been, \"different\".  Of course, it was only right that the Spanish athletes and sports officials should be condemned for their decision to make slit-eyed gestures prior to setting off for Beijing, particularly when Madrid is looking to host the Olympics within the next decade. Likewise, whether brought about by genuine racism or an ignorance of cultural considerations, it is pertinent that references to the abuse targeted at black players in La Liga or seen on the country's grand prix circuits were once again brought up. In terms of tackling racism in sport, Spain is indeed dragging its heels and needs to get its house in order.  However, the reactions of the past few days have more than occasionally gone beyond criticising the behaviour of individuals and those within the sporting arena and into the realms of national temperament, and yes, even race.  Media commentators and sports fans alike have put the incident down to unique backwardness of the Spanish people, of whom no more is to be expected. Spain is simply the Duke of Edinburgh of western Europe, to be simultaneously condemned and patronised. Writing in the Times, Rod Liddle observed that \"suddenly confronted with foreigners, the Spanish become unreconstructedly PC or magnificently obnoxious,\" with the country \"still last in the PC stakes\". Going further, Dom Joly in the Independent took this as an opportunity to roll out the usual stereotypes, alluding to Spaniards \"hurling donkeys off a church tower while laughing heinously\". Even in the Guardian, while Mark Tran argued that \"there is no point getting too worked up over this foolishness\", which he made sure to refer to only within the context of sporting events, a significant proportion of comments clearly concurred with Alexander Dumas's oft-quoted put-down that \"Africa begins in the Pyrenees\", though without the excuse of historical relativism.  \"Spain is not as advanced as Britain in its attitude to race sensitivity\", one reader noted, backed up by claims that \"many Spanish people are incredibly racist\", and that \"Spain is remarkably backward in this respect\", while there were also calls for a special diversity programme to be rolled out to \"help Spaniards control their racism\".  Such a reliance on sweeping generalisations is hardly likely to solve the problem that does exist and, in a week when the BNP enjoyed its annual jolly to the countryside and a London teenager died in an apparently racist stabbing, it may even prompt some Spaniards to dismiss genuine concerns as mere hypocrisy.  As the Spanish revisionist historian P\u00eda Moa once said:Going down this path, we might define England as the homeland of piracy and slave trafficking, which weighed so heavily in the nation's formation and prosperity.Just as it has been for hundreds of years, the idea of Spain being uniquely intolerant and backward may well be supported by individual examples of shortcomings, but is fundamentally unjustified. It has been argued that the drive to create a morally inferior \"other\" in the 16th century arose partly from the need to justify the shortcomings of the English, Dutch, and then the French empires. Should this still be the case, the endurance of the \"black legend\" looks all but guaranteed for the some time yet.", "tags": ["Spain", "Olympics 2008", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe", "Olympics"], "title": "David Hewitt: For Spain, the spectre of the 'black legend' has returned"},{"date": "2008-09-29T16:15:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Church of San Juan de los Caballeros was the perfect setting for a discussion of an English love affair with Spain, representing as it does the beauty of the old Catholic country that first seduced them. Part of this year's Hay festival in the Castilian town of Segovia, it saw three Englishmen explain how they ended up dedicating their lives to Spain. But the event told you almost as much about English identities as Spanish ones. Paul Preston, a lapsed Catholic, played the role of the working class Liverpudlian boy whose brilliance saw him win a scholarship to Oxford and rise to become the leading historian on 20th-century Spain. Giles Tremlett, the Guardian's man in Madrid and author of Ghosts of Spain, was the dashing foreign correspondent with the sharp eye for detail and a nice line in stories about his travels around the country. When he was younger his plan was to visit and live in a new country every three or four years, he says, \"but now I've been here in Spain for 18 years\".Michael Jacobs, author of numerous books on the country spanning two decades, was cast as romantic public schoolboy, wandering across Spain, sleeping on the side of the road, in a barn or wherever he found to lay his hat. Indeed, he says, arms windmilling with infectious enthusiasm, \"the first time I came to Segovia, I walked from Madrid, and ended up coming into the town on a donkey\". Since then, however, he has spent his time \"trying to battle those romantic stereotypes\".All three of them have been labelled \"hispanistas\" in their time, and none seem happy with the term. \"An hispanist is someone who is an expert in the Spanish language,\" says Preston, but somehow it has come to mean anyone interested in all things Spanish. In part that is because the press in Spain is fascinated by how outsiders see it and want to gather all those who write about the country into an exclusive club. \"Sometimes it seems that Spaniards think that British historians only study Spain,\" says Preston. But all agree that while the term might annoy them, it also has its advantages - it certainly gets people talking about their work in Spain.Preston's success is indicative of what many in Spain admire about a certain kind of Englishness. Each book he releases is a major event in Spain \u2013 his latest, We Saw Spain Die, is to be released in the UK next month \u2013 and as he wanders around Segovia, he's treated almost like a movie star. El Mundo newspaper even goes so far as to say that the festival only really came alive when Preston arrived.Preston is occasionally gruff and cynical, but very amusing, interspersing serious analysis with biting one-liners. Later that day he gives a lecture to a packed theatre, speaking for an hour in his perfect Spanish, about the impact of 1968 in Spain to a rapt audience. It is hard to think of many foreign historians who get this kind of treatment in the UK.Part of what the three men, from their very different perspectives, try to do is to provide a clear, unbiased vision of a country still marked by the fallout of the civil war and the Franco dictatorship. The right and the left, so scarred by events after 1936, find it hard to come to a consensus over the facts of what happened, let alone their interpretation, and this has had a long-lasting impact on modern politics. Sometimes it takes an outsider's eye to give an even-handed account of past and present.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Spain holidays", "Hay festival", "Travel writing"], "title": "An outsider's eye: three Englishmen in Spain"},{"date": "2008-09-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Money, or the lack of it, is forcing a rising number of unhappy Spanish couples to stay together.In the first quarter of 2008, the number of divorces in Spain fell 20% compared with the same period last year, from 37,497 to 29,704. The figures suggest a growing trend, with divorces in 2007 down to 130,897 from 140,000 the previous year.Experts claim that as the country's economic problems worsen, more couples are finding the cost of divorce and separate households beyond their reach. Gonzalo Pueyo, of the Spanish Association of Family Lawyers, said: \"In eras of plenty, divorces are more frequent. But when times are tough, many couples decide to maintain stability and their standard of living rather than split the household and incur all those extra costs. They may live in the same house but not be a couple.\"Ander Gurrutxaga, professor of sociology at the University of the Basque Country, conducted a study that found some middle-class couples who split saw their standard of living drop drastically. \"Some are forced to live like students when they are no longer that age or want that life,\" he said.After 15 years of expansion, powered by a building boom, Spain is in an economic crisis. Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, told the Spanish financial daily El Economista yesterday that Spain's economy would contract in the third and fourth quarters this year.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Economy: Cash crisis cuts divorce in Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As August begins, thousands of Britons are scrambling to Spain to get their annual fix of sun, just as they do every year. Over the decades it has opened up foreign travel for millions, and it remains the top destination for UK tourists. But this happy achievement has come at a cost, with stretches of coastline laid waste by the bulldozer and massive emissions from flights. Yes, Spain is admired for many things, but environmental protection is not traditionally one of them. This week, however, that started to change, thanks to a new energy plan - its sweep and ambition shames tamer efforts in places where greenery has deeper roots. The most eye-catching idea - and the biggest political risk - is slashing speed limits to 50mph to save fuel. A cap on winter heating is also planned, as are tight restrictions on how far air conditioning can be used to chill public buildings in those sizzling summer months. There will be less street lighting, more public transport and a drive to build a million greener cars. Success is not guaranteed, and the decentralised political system could make it harder to come by. And it is true that Madrid is motivated by enlightened self-interest as much as by concern for the world: saving billions on oil imports will flatter a swelling trade deficit. But in telling business that business as usual is no longer an option, a progressive government is setting set an example for others to follow. Long sought out for its heat, Spain is suddenly playing a noble role in keeping the world as a whole cool.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Spain holidays", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: In praise of... Spain"},{"date": "2008-07-03T11:30:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's first female defence minister is back at work \u2013 42 days after having her first baby. Pictures of the pregnant Carme Chac\u00f3n inspecting the Spanish troops made newspapers all over the world, as she became a symbol for the possibility of equality in politics and evidence of the changing of the guard in once-macho Spain.Chac\u00f3n didn't take the full four months' maternity leave to which Spanish law entitles her. I was pleased to learn that little Miquel is being looked after by his father, who is taking the rest of Chac\u00f3n's statutory leave under a recent law from the current socialist government.Back in the parliament, though, Chac\u00f3n seemed perhaps a shade too keen to demonstrate that she hadn't taken her eye off the troops even during just less than six weeks of sleep-interrupted nights. Spain's victory in Euro 2008 was \"mission accomplished\", she joked to MPs at the start of her five-hour appearance. She would increase the number of troops from 126,000 to 130,000, introduce new laws on defence \u2013 and \"in a few weeks\" would replace the chief of the armed forces and the heads of the army, the navy and the air force.Although, as Spanish daily El Pais points out, it is not unusual practice for the military chiefs to be replaced after every parliament, in the past the new minister of defence waits until he or she \"has had time to get to know the generals and to see who are worthy of belonging to his inner circle\".Miguel Gonz\u00e1lez, in the generally pro-government El Pais, says Chac\u00f3n ignored the advice of the prime minister and of her predecessor Jos\u00e9 Antonio Alonso to keep the chief of the armed forces, Felix Sanz, in post at least for a short while.Clearly, Chac\u00f3n has her own ideas about the kind of people she wants in charge and her critics are probably (privately) fearing the worst. The trouble with Chac\u00f3n's speech to parliament, though, was that it wasn't that clear about Chac\u00f3n's plans for defence. She insisted on the need to give Spanish troops taking part in missions abroad \"more flexibility\" but left it to her listeners to assume that might mean scrapping current rules which limit the number of Spanish troops abroad to 3,000. Nor did she address thorny questions such as the difficulty of recruiting professional soldiers and marines now that Spain no longer has military service.\"Nor do we know how our remaining in Kosovo is justified [Spain has not recognised Kosovo as an independent state] nor the point in the medium term of the mission in Afghanistan, consumed to a large extent in tasks of self-protection,\" added El Pais' Miguel Angel Aguilar.Commentators concluded the aim of Chac\u00f3n's speech was all about building \"consensus\" \u2013 the current buzzword in Spanish politics with the opposition even prepared to show it can be less antagonistic (and plain nasty) than in the last parliament.The trouble, of course, is that you can't always have consensus in politics \u2013 and you certainly can't always have it in decisions involving war and conflict. Chac\u00f3n is likely to face some tough questions in the weeks ahead.", "tags": ["Spain", "Politics", "Women in politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: Spain's new defence minister is causing a stir"},{"date": "2008-07-04T23:06:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Walkers visiting the Costa Dorada in Catalonia can now book group day hikes in the nearby mountains of Muntayes de Prades, Serra del Montsant and Serra de Llaberia with Excursions.cat. A five-hour hike in the Muntayes de Prades covers a trail through abandoned mountain cottages, watery ravines and along the Brugent valley.\u00b7 0034 626 822 385, telefonica.net. Regular departures from \u20ac13pp.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Catalonia holidays"], "title": "Highland hiking in Spain"},{"date": "2008-08-20T13:30:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Almost a century has passed since Spanish intellectuals rallied to fight back against the \"black legend\" (la leyenda negra), but, as recent off-the-field events at the Olympics have shown, it is still casting a dark shadow over Europe. Only defined in 1914 by Juli\u00e1n Juder\u00edas, the \"black legend\" refers to the centuries-old idea of Spain possessing an intolerance and lust for blood unparalleled within Europe. Supported by the worst excesses of the Inquisition and the conquistadores, art, history and literature from the Enlightenment to Hemingway have presented the Spaniards as, at best romantic and simple folk, and at worst morally degenerate with unique sanguinary propensities. As with all legends, the notion that Spain is, uniquely \"ignorant, fanatical and inclined toward violent repression\" has some grounding in historical fact, but it was nevertheless fundamentally born out of the imperialistic propaganda of the 16th century.  Despite this, the image of Spain as a backward \"fragment of Africa, soldered so cruelly to inventive Europe\", as WH Auden put it, has endured to this day. Germany included, it is unlikely that any other country would be subjected to such allegations of inherent racism among its people on the back of a couple of ill-judged photos. Spain is, and always has been, \"different\".  Of course, it was only right that the Spanish athletes and sports officials should be condemned for their decision to make slit-eyed gestures prior to setting off for Beijing, particularly when Madrid is looking to host the Olympics within the next decade. Likewise, whether brought about by genuine racism or an ignorance of cultural considerations, it is pertinent that references to the abuse targeted at black players in La Liga or seen on the country's grand prix circuits were once again brought up. In terms of tackling racism in sport, Spain is indeed dragging its heels and needs to get its house in order.  However, the reactions of the past few days have more than occasionally gone beyond criticising the behaviour of individuals and those within the sporting arena and into the realms of national temperament, and yes, even race.  Media commentators and sports fans alike have put the incident down to unique backwardness of the Spanish people, of whom no more is to be expected. Spain is simply the Duke of Edinburgh of western Europe, to be simultaneously condemned and patronised. Writing in the Times, Rod Liddle observed that \"suddenly confronted with foreigners, the Spanish become unreconstructedly PC or magnificently obnoxious,\" with the country \"still last in the PC stakes\". Going further, Dom Joly in the Independent took this as an opportunity to roll out the usual stereotypes, alluding to Spaniards \"hurling donkeys off a church tower while laughing heinously\". Even in the Guardian, while Mark Tran argued that \"there is no point getting too worked up over this foolishness\", which he made sure to refer to only within the context of sporting events, a significant proportion of comments clearly concurred with Alexander Dumas's oft-quoted put-down that \"Africa begins in the Pyrenees\", though without the excuse of historical relativism.  \"Spain is not as advanced as Britain in its attitude to race sensitivity\", one reader noted, backed up by claims that \"many Spanish people are incredibly racist\", and that \"Spain is remarkably backward in this respect\", while there were also calls for a special diversity programme to be rolled out to \"help Spaniards control their racism\".  Such a reliance on sweeping generalisations is hardly likely to solve the problem that does exist and, in a week when the BNP enjoyed its annual jolly to the countryside and a London teenager died in an apparently racist stabbing, it may even prompt some Spaniards to dismiss genuine concerns as mere hypocrisy.  As the Spanish revisionist historian P\u00eda Moa once said:Going down this path, we might define England as the homeland of piracy and slave trafficking, which weighed so heavily in the nation's formation and prosperity.Just as it has been for hundreds of years, the idea of Spain being uniquely intolerant and backward may well be supported by individual examples of shortcomings, but is fundamentally unjustified. It has been argued that the drive to create a morally inferior \"other\" in the 16th century arose partly from the need to justify the shortcomings of the English, Dutch, and then the French empires. Should this still be the case, the endurance of the \"black legend\" looks all but guaranteed for the some time yet.", "tags": ["Spain", "Olympics 2008", "Race issues", "World news", "Europe", "Olympics"], "title": "David Hewitt: For Spain, the spectre of the 'black legend' has returned"},{"date": "2008-09-29T16:15:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Church of San Juan de los Caballeros was the perfect setting for a discussion of an English love affair with Spain, representing as it does the beauty of the old Catholic country that first seduced them. Part of this year's Hay festival in the Castilian town of Segovia, it saw three Englishmen explain how they ended up dedicating their lives to Spain. But the event told you almost as much about English identities as Spanish ones. Paul Preston, a lapsed Catholic, played the role of the working class Liverpudlian boy whose brilliance saw him win a scholarship to Oxford and rise to become the leading historian on 20th-century Spain. Giles Tremlett, the Guardian's man in Madrid and author of Ghosts of Spain, was the dashing foreign correspondent with the sharp eye for detail and a nice line in stories about his travels around the country. When he was younger his plan was to visit and live in a new country every three or four years, he says, \"but now I've been here in Spain for 18 years\".Michael Jacobs, author of numerous books on the country spanning two decades, was cast as romantic public schoolboy, wandering across Spain, sleeping on the side of the road, in a barn or wherever he found to lay his hat. Indeed, he says, arms windmilling with infectious enthusiasm, \"the first time I came to Segovia, I walked from Madrid, and ended up coming into the town on a donkey\". Since then, however, he has spent his time \"trying to battle those romantic stereotypes\".All three of them have been labelled \"hispanistas\" in their time, and none seem happy with the term. \"An hispanist is someone who is an expert in the Spanish language,\" says Preston, but somehow it has come to mean anyone interested in all things Spanish. In part that is because the press in Spain is fascinated by how outsiders see it and want to gather all those who write about the country into an exclusive club. \"Sometimes it seems that Spaniards think that British historians only study Spain,\" says Preston. But all agree that while the term might annoy them, it also has its advantages - it certainly gets people talking about their work in Spain.Preston's success is indicative of what many in Spain admire about a certain kind of Englishness. Each book he releases is a major event in Spain \u2013 his latest, We Saw Spain Die, is to be released in the UK next month \u2013 and as he wanders around Segovia, he's treated almost like a movie star. El Mundo newspaper even goes so far as to say that the festival only really came alive when Preston arrived.Preston is occasionally gruff and cynical, but very amusing, interspersing serious analysis with biting one-liners. Later that day he gives a lecture to a packed theatre, speaking for an hour in his perfect Spanish, about the impact of 1968 in Spain to a rapt audience. It is hard to think of many foreign historians who get this kind of treatment in the UK.Part of what the three men, from their very different perspectives, try to do is to provide a clear, unbiased vision of a country still marked by the fallout of the civil war and the Franco dictatorship. The right and the left, so scarred by events after 1936, find it hard to come to a consensus over the facts of what happened, let alone their interpretation, and this has had a long-lasting impact on modern politics. Sometimes it takes an outsider's eye to give an even-handed account of past and present.", "tags": ["History", "Books", "Spain holidays", "Hay festival", "Travel writing"], "title": "An outsider's eye: three Englishmen in Spain"},{"date": "2008-09-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Money, or the lack of it, is forcing a rising number of unhappy Spanish couples to stay together.In the first quarter of 2008, the number of divorces in Spain fell 20% compared with the same period last year, from 37,497 to 29,704. The figures suggest a growing trend, with divorces in 2007 down to 130,897 from 140,000 the previous year.Experts claim that as the country's economic problems worsen, more couples are finding the cost of divorce and separate households beyond their reach. Gonzalo Pueyo, of the Spanish Association of Family Lawyers, said: \"In eras of plenty, divorces are more frequent. But when times are tough, many couples decide to maintain stability and their standard of living rather than split the household and incur all those extra costs. They may live in the same house but not be a couple.\"Ander Gurrutxaga, professor of sociology at the University of the Basque Country, conducted a study that found some middle-class couples who split saw their standard of living drop drastically. \"Some are forced to live like students when they are no longer that age or want that life,\" he said.After 15 years of expansion, powered by a building boom, Spain is in an economic crisis. Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, told the Spanish financial daily El Economista yesterday that Spain's economy would contract in the third and fourth quarters this year.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Economy: Cash crisis cuts divorce in Spain"},{"date": "2008-09-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of the world's most wanted drug lords has been arrested in a five-star Madrid hotel, Spanish police said yesterday. Edgar Vallejo-Guar\u00edn, 47, also known as Jairo G\u00f3mez and Beto Gitano, has 'an extensive history of violence, money laundering, and the corruption of high-level government officials,' said a US state department spokesman. Vallejo-Guar\u00edn, from Colombia, was indicted in 2001 by a federal court in Florida for heading and operating a criminal enterprise. The indictment said that he was a major source of Colombian cocaine in America between 1990 and 1999, and was responsible for numerous multi-ton shipments of cocaine to the US and Europe. The US government, which had offered $5m reward for information leading to his arrest, said that it would request his extradition.", "tags": ["Spain", "Colombia", "World news", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Spain: Colombian cocaine baron held at hotel"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-12-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Grappling with rising unemployment and a moribund economy, the Spanish government proposed new rules yesterday to limit the influx of immigrants. The measures would let police hold immigrants without papers for longer pending expulsion and make it harder for foreign-born residents to bring relatives over.A few years ago Spain was Europe's top job creator. In 2005 it granted amnesty to 600,000 illegal immigrants, many of whom worked as labourers in the booming property sector. But the economy is on the verge of recession and unemployment has soared to 11.3%. Among immigrants the jobless rate surpasses 17%.The labour minister, Celestino Corbacho, said the government must limit immigrants so as not to swell the ranks of the unemployed. \"Immigration has to be linked to the labour market,\" he said.The plans will go before government advisory bodies, then to parliament for debate and a vote next year. About 4.3 million foreigners live in Spain legally, about 10% of its population. The government has no figure for those without papers.One measure would raise from 40 to 60 the number of days that police can hold people caught entering illegally. Many Africans arrive without passports so they cannot be identified. After 40 days the government is forced to release them.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain plans migrant crackdown as economy falters"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-12-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Grappling with rising unemployment and a moribund economy, the Spanish government proposed new rules yesterday to limit the influx of immigrants. The measures would let police hold immigrants without papers for longer pending expulsion and make it harder for foreign-born residents to bring relatives over.A few years ago Spain was Europe's top job creator. In 2005 it granted amnesty to 600,000 illegal immigrants, many of whom worked as labourers in the booming property sector. But the economy is on the verge of recession and unemployment has soared to 11.3%. Among immigrants the jobless rate surpasses 17%.The labour minister, Celestino Corbacho, said the government must limit immigrants so as not to swell the ranks of the unemployed. \"Immigration has to be linked to the labour market,\" he said.The plans will go before government advisory bodies, then to parliament for debate and a vote next year. About 4.3 million foreigners live in Spain legally, about 10% of its population. The government has no figure for those without papers.One measure would raise from 40 to 60 the number of days that police can hold people caught entering illegally. Many Africans arrive without passports so they cannot be identified. After 40 days the government is forced to release them.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain plans migrant crackdown as economy falters"},{"date": "2008-12-18T18:48:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's former dictator General Francisco Franco was finally knocked off his pedestal yesterday as workmen removed the last public monument to him on the mainland from a square in the northern port city of Santander. A huge bronze sculpture of the erstwhile caudillo sitting on a prancing horse has overseen traffic jams around the city's Plaza del Ayuntamiento for 44 years.This morning workers arrived with blow torches, pneumatic drills and a crane to begin the task of carrying him off to a municipal warehouse.The small crowd of onlookers included a handful of Franco supporters, who arrived with a bunch of flowers in memory of the man who ruled Spain for 36 years until his death in 1975.One man tried to pin the flag of the Falange, a far-right party that backed Franco, on to the sculpture, which is spattered with red paint from protesters.The order to remove the statue came from the mayor, I\u00f1igo de la Serna, of the rightwing People's party. He said the general would be mothballed until he could be moved to a regional museum, which has yet to be built. The mayor provoked controversy, however, by ordering the removal of a plaque commemorating the Second Republic, which was overthrown by Franco and other rightwing generals when they sparked the Spanish civil war with an uprising in 1936.The Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory, which lobbied for a recent law that banned Francoist symbols from public places, accused the mayor of placing the republic and Francoism on the same level.\"That was precisely the time when Spaniards were, for the first time, able to choose their mayors in democratic elections,\" they said.As part of the same move to eradicate Francoist symbols, the Canary Island city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife today changed the name of one of its main streets from Rambla General Franco to Rambla de Santa Cruz. Other streets named after Francoist generals were also changed.The Santander statue, already spattered with red paint by protesters, was the last public sculpture of Franco left in mainland Spain.A smaller sculpture of Franco still stands in Spain's north African enclave at Melilla, where he gained military prominence as a young Spanish Legion officer. Officials there plan to send him to a military museum.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain removes last Franco statue from mainland"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-12-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Grappling with rising unemployment and a moribund economy, the Spanish government proposed new rules yesterday to limit the influx of immigrants. The measures would let police hold immigrants without papers for longer pending expulsion and make it harder for foreign-born residents to bring relatives over.A few years ago Spain was Europe's top job creator. In 2005 it granted amnesty to 600,000 illegal immigrants, many of whom worked as labourers in the booming property sector. But the economy is on the verge of recession and unemployment has soared to 11.3%. Among immigrants the jobless rate surpasses 17%.The labour minister, Celestino Corbacho, said the government must limit immigrants so as not to swell the ranks of the unemployed. \"Immigration has to be linked to the labour market,\" he said.The plans will go before government advisory bodies, then to parliament for debate and a vote next year. About 4.3 million foreigners live in Spain legally, about 10% of its population. The government has no figure for those without papers.One measure would raise from 40 to 60 the number of days that police can hold people caught entering illegally. Many Africans arrive without passports so they cannot be identified. After 40 days the government is forced to release them.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain plans migrant crackdown as economy falters"},{"date": "2008-12-18T18:48:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's former dictator General Francisco Franco was finally knocked off his pedestal yesterday as workmen removed the last public monument to him on the mainland from a square in the northern port city of Santander. A huge bronze sculpture of the erstwhile caudillo sitting on a prancing horse has overseen traffic jams around the city's Plaza del Ayuntamiento for 44 years.This morning workers arrived with blow torches, pneumatic drills and a crane to begin the task of carrying him off to a municipal warehouse.The small crowd of onlookers included a handful of Franco supporters, who arrived with a bunch of flowers in memory of the man who ruled Spain for 36 years until his death in 1975.One man tried to pin the flag of the Falange, a far-right party that backed Franco, on to the sculpture, which is spattered with red paint from protesters.The order to remove the statue came from the mayor, I\u00f1igo de la Serna, of the rightwing People's party. He said the general would be mothballed until he could be moved to a regional museum, which has yet to be built. The mayor provoked controversy, however, by ordering the removal of a plaque commemorating the Second Republic, which was overthrown by Franco and other rightwing generals when they sparked the Spanish civil war with an uprising in 1936.The Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory, which lobbied for a recent law that banned Francoist symbols from public places, accused the mayor of placing the republic and Francoism on the same level.\"That was precisely the time when Spaniards were, for the first time, able to choose their mayors in democratic elections,\" they said.As part of the same move to eradicate Francoist symbols, the Canary Island city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife today changed the name of one of its main streets from Rambla General Franco to Rambla de Santa Cruz. Other streets named after Francoist generals were also changed.The Santander statue, already spattered with red paint by protesters, was the last public sculpture of Franco left in mainland Spain.A smaller sculpture of Franco still stands in Spain's north African enclave at Melilla, where he gained military prominence as a young Spanish Legion officer. Officials there plan to send him to a military museum.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain removes last Franco statue from mainland"},{"date": "2008-11-11T14:50:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An international arrest warrant was issued today for a Basque separatist militant suspected of praising terrorism on the day he completed a jail term for crimes including the killings of 25 people.Judge Eloy Velasco, of the National Court in Spain, issued the warrant for Jose Ignacio de Juana Chaos after he failed to show up for questioning as ordered by the judge. Praising terrorism is a crime in Spain.De Juana Chaos, 53, was released from prison in August after serving 21 years for killing 25 people and making terrorist threats from prison. He admits having been a member of the armed Basque group, Eta, and has never expressed remorse for his crimes.De Juana Chaos is believed to have been living in Ireland since he got out of prison.The judge wants to interrogate him about a letter read at a celebratory rally held in San Sebastian the day De Juana Chaos was released from jail. The letter hailed Domingo Iturbe Abasolo, a late, senior leader of Eta, as \"a great man.\"In a writ issued today, Velasco said De Juana Chaos, who did not attend the rally, handed over the letter for it to be read in his name.The letter called for Basque separatists to \"continue the armed struggle\" and \"use violent and criminal means\" to achieve Basque independence, the judge wrote.The judge has not formally charged De Juana Chaos, but issued a European arrest warrant for him. He said he would be held without bail in Spain if and when he was detained.De Juana Chaos was convicted in 1989 of killing 25 people in a string of ETA attacks, including the death of 12 police officers in a car bombing in Madrid in 1986.He served 21 years for the killings and two newspaper articles he wrote from prison that were deemed to be terrorist.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain orders arrest of Basque militant"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-12-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Grappling with rising unemployment and a moribund economy, the Spanish government proposed new rules yesterday to limit the influx of immigrants. The measures would let police hold immigrants without papers for longer pending expulsion and make it harder for foreign-born residents to bring relatives over.A few years ago Spain was Europe's top job creator. In 2005 it granted amnesty to 600,000 illegal immigrants, many of whom worked as labourers in the booming property sector. But the economy is on the verge of recession and unemployment has soared to 11.3%. Among immigrants the jobless rate surpasses 17%.The labour minister, Celestino Corbacho, said the government must limit immigrants so as not to swell the ranks of the unemployed. \"Immigration has to be linked to the labour market,\" he said.The plans will go before government advisory bodies, then to parliament for debate and a vote next year. About 4.3 million foreigners live in Spain legally, about 10% of its population. The government has no figure for those without papers.One measure would raise from 40 to 60 the number of days that police can hold people caught entering illegally. Many Africans arrive without passports so they cannot be identified. After 40 days the government is forced to release them.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain plans migrant crackdown as economy falters"},{"date": "2008-12-18T18:48:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's former dictator General Francisco Franco was finally knocked off his pedestal yesterday as workmen removed the last public monument to him on the mainland from a square in the northern port city of Santander. A huge bronze sculpture of the erstwhile caudillo sitting on a prancing horse has overseen traffic jams around the city's Plaza del Ayuntamiento for 44 years.This morning workers arrived with blow torches, pneumatic drills and a crane to begin the task of carrying him off to a municipal warehouse.The small crowd of onlookers included a handful of Franco supporters, who arrived with a bunch of flowers in memory of the man who ruled Spain for 36 years until his death in 1975.One man tried to pin the flag of the Falange, a far-right party that backed Franco, on to the sculpture, which is spattered with red paint from protesters.The order to remove the statue came from the mayor, I\u00f1igo de la Serna, of the rightwing People's party. He said the general would be mothballed until he could be moved to a regional museum, which has yet to be built. The mayor provoked controversy, however, by ordering the removal of a plaque commemorating the Second Republic, which was overthrown by Franco and other rightwing generals when they sparked the Spanish civil war with an uprising in 1936.The Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory, which lobbied for a recent law that banned Francoist symbols from public places, accused the mayor of placing the republic and Francoism on the same level.\"That was precisely the time when Spaniards were, for the first time, able to choose their mayors in democratic elections,\" they said.As part of the same move to eradicate Francoist symbols, the Canary Island city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife today changed the name of one of its main streets from Rambla General Franco to Rambla de Santa Cruz. Other streets named after Francoist generals were also changed.The Santander statue, already spattered with red paint by protesters, was the last public sculpture of Franco left in mainland Spain.A smaller sculpture of Franco still stands in Spain's north African enclave at Melilla, where he gained military prominence as a young Spanish Legion officer. Officials there plan to send him to a military museum.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain removes last Franco statue from mainland"},{"date": "2008-11-11T14:50:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An international arrest warrant was issued today for a Basque separatist militant suspected of praising terrorism on the day he completed a jail term for crimes including the killings of 25 people.Judge Eloy Velasco, of the National Court in Spain, issued the warrant for Jose Ignacio de Juana Chaos after he failed to show up for questioning as ordered by the judge. Praising terrorism is a crime in Spain.De Juana Chaos, 53, was released from prison in August after serving 21 years for killing 25 people and making terrorist threats from prison. He admits having been a member of the armed Basque group, Eta, and has never expressed remorse for his crimes.De Juana Chaos is believed to have been living in Ireland since he got out of prison.The judge wants to interrogate him about a letter read at a celebratory rally held in San Sebastian the day De Juana Chaos was released from jail. The letter hailed Domingo Iturbe Abasolo, a late, senior leader of Eta, as \"a great man.\"In a writ issued today, Velasco said De Juana Chaos, who did not attend the rally, handed over the letter for it to be read in his name.The letter called for Basque separatists to \"continue the armed struggle\" and \"use violent and criminal means\" to achieve Basque independence, the judge wrote.The judge has not formally charged De Juana Chaos, but issued a European arrest warrant for him. He said he would be held without bail in Spain if and when he was detained.De Juana Chaos was convicted in 1989 of killing 25 people in a string of ETA attacks, including the death of 12 police officers in a car bombing in Madrid in 1986.He served 21 years for the killings and two newspaper articles he wrote from prison that were deemed to be terrorist.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain orders arrest of Basque militant"},{"date": "2008-10-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This blog has been second to none in its tireless cheerleading for Spain for McCain, the support group whose energies have not been dimmed by their candidate apparently not knowing where Spain is, nor by only having a cardboard cutout of the man to haul from event to event, but guys, you have to meet us half way. Now it turns out that an artist is planning to create a 2.5-acre image of Barack Obama's face out of sand and gravel right in your own backyard -- Barcelona beach! My friends, if you cannot stop at least this one single example of Obama worship, right there on the Iberian peninsula, we will begin to harbour suspicions that the groundswell of McCainiac support you purport to represent isn't all it's cracked up to be. So get to it. Remember: Si se puede! Si se puede! [CNN]", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "John McCain", "US politics"], "title": "Oliver Burkeman's Campaign Diary: Obama's face on a Spanish beach"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Gallop across Segovia, a wild and empty region near Madrid, on a short horseback adventure through pine forests, prairies, sierras and river valleys, with stop-offs for lunch in rural restaurants. The three-day trip is guided, and includes accommodation in a luxurious converted monastery or palacio Paradore, meals and transfers from Madrid.\u2022 segoviaridingcentre.com, \u20ac1,200pp.", "tags": ["Spain", "Horse riding holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "Go horseback riding in Segovia"},{"date": "2008-10-15T20:30:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As far as reputations go, Gordon Brown is not the only one who has managed to look good in the face of the global economic meltdown. Spain and its socialist government have looked confident and decisive in response to the crisis.Unflappable Pedro Solbes, the finance minister, resisted the kneejerk unilateralism of Ireland's blanket guarantee of savers' deposits, arguing early on that Europe needed to adopt a coordinated response to the world's credit crunch. However, when initial attempts to thrash out a European consensus failed, Spain was quick to unveil a national strategy.Next Monday, a special parliamentary session will be held to approve the government's measures: to offer bank guarantees for new debt of up to \u20ac100bn this year (and the government has already indicated it is likely to make available around the same amount next year) and to set up a fund of up to \u20ac50bn to buy assets from banks in order to keep credit flowing to the economy.Spain's main opposition party, the conservative Partido Popular (PP), is broadly in favour of the measures, which is unsurprising as they are similar to those being introduced by other European countries and followed a meeting of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero,the prime minister, with some of the country's largest bankers, including those from Santander and BBVA.But it's high time to focus on the nitty-gritty of the plan. \"The conditions which the economy ministry is going to establish so that banks can benefit from this guarantee are still unknown,\" points out Wednesday's business daily La Gaceta de los Negocios.The Spanish taxpayer has a right to know what kind of assets the government will buy with the emergency fund, how the process will be run, their interests protected and whether the funding will reach \"the real economy\" \u2013 including families and small businesses hit by tighter lending and the increase in the Euribor.The government has said the fund will be used only to buy \"high quality assets at their real value\" and that eventually it will stimulate the market, so that it does not cost the taxpayer a cent. Critics have viewed these assurances with scepticism. \"Why are we going to give banks this large sum of money without asking what they are going to do with it, as Solbes proposed we do on Friday?\", wrote Santiago Gonz\u00e1lez in right-of-centre El Mundo. \"Let's apply the same lack of trust which they apply to us when they gave us loans.\"The largest Spanish trade union, the CCOO, made its own proposition to ensure the country's borrowers reap some of the benefits of the bank guarantees \u2013 it proposes banks which get public aid be obliged to cut their interest rates on mortgages (on average 5.477% in October) to the ECB's lending interest rate, which is currently 3.75%.Whether accepted or not, the proposal is a reminder that beyond the liquidity squeeze facing banks, the Spanish economy faces a home-grown crisis of its own. While Spanish banks have boasted they are not saddled with fancy derivatives of dubious value, many face rising defaults on mortgages and consumer loans issued at the height of Spain's decade-long building boom and have to compete for business in a less dynamic economy.History will ultimately rate this government on its ability to implement some painful and unpopular economic restructuring, to drive up productivity and create wealth and jobs beyond the empty houses which litter Spain's coasts and many of its cities.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Property", "Europe"], "title": "Sarah Morris: The Spanish government's response has been confident and decisive but structural problems remain"},{"date": "2008-12-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What with the global financial crisis and the collapse of the property market, it has been a lean year in Spain. But for those lucky enough to win a share of the massive lottery prize known as El Gordo, or The Fat One, Christmas started with a sudden dose of cheer yesterday.The Fat One showered \u20ac2.15bn (\u00a32.02bn) in prize money across the country. It brought tears of relief to some winners and champagne-soaked pledges to pay off mortgages and meet debts from others.The world's biggest lottery payout has ushered in the Spanish Christmas season for almost two centuries since it was first drawn in 1812. Rarely has the prize money, spread among tens of thousands of people, been so eagerly welcomed. \"Everybody says they are going to use it to get themselves out of problems,\" said Madrid lottery seller Rosario Rueda.Her shop in the working-class Embajadores district of Madrid was just one place where the pavements were sticky with champagne yesterday as clients and staff celebrated their good fortune. From small villages in north-western Galicia and southern Andalucia to the centre of Barcelona, the sudden arrival of prize money was being celebrated with both glee and relief.In Barcelona, where much of the prize money fell, Pakistani immigrant Shalim Ahmed was proudly waving a savings bank book where the balance had jumped from \u20ac17 to \u20ac300,017.\"To hell with the crisis,\" said another winner in Barcelona, Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, who shaved the winning number - 32365 - into his hair. \"I lost my job recently,\" he said. \"I'm going out tonight and I'll blow the rest on doing up my car and buying a flat.\"\"I'll be paying off my daughter's debts first,\" said winner Manuel Gasc\u00f3. \"She's got a large mortgage.\"Isabel Moliner, whose shop in Barcelona's Las Ramblas boulevarde sold many of the winning tickets, said some had gone to tourists attracted to the world's most famous lottery. Police had to divert traffic around her shop yesterday as crowds gathered to celebrate the prizes.Spaniards are among the most fervent gamblers in Europe. This year they spent \u20ac60 each on El Gordo tickets. For the first time in many years, however, there was a fall in the overall amount of money they spent, which nevertheless was estimated at more than \u20ac2.8bn.The complex system of individual prizes means that these are measured in thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of euros rather than in millions. For some two thousand holders of a d\u00e9cimo, as a \u20ac20 stake in a lottery number is called, yesterday's winning number was worth \u20ac300,000.Part of that money was showered on to the small central Spanish city of Soria where hundreds of winning decimos were sold. Barman Ricardo Jim\u00e9nez said he had won more than a million euros after spending more than 300 euros on different lottery numbers. He had also sold many tickets to friends and clients.\"This changes everything,\" said one of the clients at Bar Gary, which sold many winning tickets in Soria.The city's mayor, Carlos Mart\u00ednez, said the money would make a dramatic difference to Soria. \"This will be spent in shops, helps business and will buy flats,\" said Mart\u00ednez, whose parents and brothers were among the winners. \"It should see us through the crisis next year.\"The El Gordo draw, which lasts all morning, was broadcast live on television yesterday as Spaniards waited anxiously to find out if they would get lucky this Christmas. With some 70% of the money played being returned in prizes, most hoped that, at the least, they would get their money back. The winning number was finally pulled at midday from a basket of balls by children from Madrid's San Ildefonso school - a tradition that dates back to the origins of Spain's national lottery system in the 18th century. El Gordo tickets are sold around the world, with several lottery shops selling them over the internet. These end up as far away as Japan.The biggest winner yesterday was the Spanish exchequer. It kept the 30% of money not handed back to lottery players as prizes, more than \u20ac800m, part of which will cover the cost of running the nation's lottery.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "El Gordo lottery brings \u00a32bn sparkle to Spain"},{"date": "2008-12-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Grappling with rising unemployment and a moribund economy, the Spanish government proposed new rules yesterday to limit the influx of immigrants. The measures would let police hold immigrants without papers for longer pending expulsion and make it harder for foreign-born residents to bring relatives over.A few years ago Spain was Europe's top job creator. In 2005 it granted amnesty to 600,000 illegal immigrants, many of whom worked as labourers in the booming property sector. But the economy is on the verge of recession and unemployment has soared to 11.3%. Among immigrants the jobless rate surpasses 17%.The labour minister, Celestino Corbacho, said the government must limit immigrants so as not to swell the ranks of the unemployed. \"Immigration has to be linked to the labour market,\" he said.The plans will go before government advisory bodies, then to parliament for debate and a vote next year. About 4.3 million foreigners live in Spain legally, about 10% of its population. The government has no figure for those without papers.One measure would raise from 40 to 60 the number of days that police can hold people caught entering illegally. Many Africans arrive without passports so they cannot be identified. After 40 days the government is forced to release them.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain plans migrant crackdown as economy falters"},{"date": "2008-12-18T18:48:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's former dictator General Francisco Franco was finally knocked off his pedestal yesterday as workmen removed the last public monument to him on the mainland from a square in the northern port city of Santander. A huge bronze sculpture of the erstwhile caudillo sitting on a prancing horse has overseen traffic jams around the city's Plaza del Ayuntamiento for 44 years.This morning workers arrived with blow torches, pneumatic drills and a crane to begin the task of carrying him off to a municipal warehouse.The small crowd of onlookers included a handful of Franco supporters, who arrived with a bunch of flowers in memory of the man who ruled Spain for 36 years until his death in 1975.One man tried to pin the flag of the Falange, a far-right party that backed Franco, on to the sculpture, which is spattered with red paint from protesters.The order to remove the statue came from the mayor, I\u00f1igo de la Serna, of the rightwing People's party. He said the general would be mothballed until he could be moved to a regional museum, which has yet to be built. The mayor provoked controversy, however, by ordering the removal of a plaque commemorating the Second Republic, which was overthrown by Franco and other rightwing generals when they sparked the Spanish civil war with an uprising in 1936.The Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory, which lobbied for a recent law that banned Francoist symbols from public places, accused the mayor of placing the republic and Francoism on the same level.\"That was precisely the time when Spaniards were, for the first time, able to choose their mayors in democratic elections,\" they said.As part of the same move to eradicate Francoist symbols, the Canary Island city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife today changed the name of one of its main streets from Rambla General Franco to Rambla de Santa Cruz. Other streets named after Francoist generals were also changed.The Santander statue, already spattered with red paint by protesters, was the last public sculpture of Franco left in mainland Spain.A smaller sculpture of Franco still stands in Spain's north African enclave at Melilla, where he gained military prominence as a young Spanish Legion officer. Officials there plan to send him to a military museum.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain removes last Franco statue from mainland"},{"date": "2008-11-11T14:50:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An international arrest warrant was issued today for a Basque separatist militant suspected of praising terrorism on the day he completed a jail term for crimes including the killings of 25 people.Judge Eloy Velasco, of the National Court in Spain, issued the warrant for Jose Ignacio de Juana Chaos after he failed to show up for questioning as ordered by the judge. Praising terrorism is a crime in Spain.De Juana Chaos, 53, was released from prison in August after serving 21 years for killing 25 people and making terrorist threats from prison. He admits having been a member of the armed Basque group, Eta, and has never expressed remorse for his crimes.De Juana Chaos is believed to have been living in Ireland since he got out of prison.The judge wants to interrogate him about a letter read at a celebratory rally held in San Sebastian the day De Juana Chaos was released from jail. The letter hailed Domingo Iturbe Abasolo, a late, senior leader of Eta, as \"a great man.\"In a writ issued today, Velasco said De Juana Chaos, who did not attend the rally, handed over the letter for it to be read in his name.The letter called for Basque separatists to \"continue the armed struggle\" and \"use violent and criminal means\" to achieve Basque independence, the judge wrote.The judge has not formally charged De Juana Chaos, but issued a European arrest warrant for him. He said he would be held without bail in Spain if and when he was detained.De Juana Chaos was convicted in 1989 of killing 25 people in a string of ETA attacks, including the death of 12 police officers in a car bombing in Madrid in 1986.He served 21 years for the killings and two newspaper articles he wrote from prison that were deemed to be terrorist.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain orders arrest of Basque militant"},{"date": "2008-10-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This blog has been second to none in its tireless cheerleading for Spain for McCain, the support group whose energies have not been dimmed by their candidate apparently not knowing where Spain is, nor by only having a cardboard cutout of the man to haul from event to event, but guys, you have to meet us half way. Now it turns out that an artist is planning to create a 2.5-acre image of Barack Obama's face out of sand and gravel right in your own backyard -- Barcelona beach! My friends, if you cannot stop at least this one single example of Obama worship, right there on the Iberian peninsula, we will begin to harbour suspicions that the groundswell of McCainiac support you purport to represent isn't all it's cracked up to be. So get to it. Remember: Si se puede! Si se puede! [CNN]", "tags": ["US elections 2008", "John McCain", "US politics"], "title": "Oliver Burkeman's Campaign Diary: Obama's face on a Spanish beach"},{"date": "2008-10-21T14:30:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A newly married Briton has drowned while on honeymoon in Spain, the Foreign Office said today.A spokeswoman said Russell Kenneth Hawkes died at the Spanish seaside resort of Fuengirola, on the Costa del Sol, yesterday afternoon.According to reports in the Malaga-based Sur newspaper, the 39-year-old, from Basildon, in Essex, was drowned after a strong undercurrent swept him out to sea. It is believed his wife raised the alarm after he failed to return to the Carvajal beach. Surfers pulled Hawkes unconscious from the sea, but resuscitation attempts on the beach failed.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "British newlywed drowns on honeymoon in Spain"},{"date": "2009-03-06T15:16:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain set a new record for wind power generation yesterday as gales blew across the country, with more than 40% of the country's energy needs being covered by wind turbines at one stage.The peak of 11,180mw of electricity supply came mid-morning yesterday, as fierce winds swept across much of north-west Spain, where most of the country's extensive wind farms are situated.That covered 29% of Spain's energy needs at the time. The percentage had been even higher, reaching above 40% for several hours, earlier in the morning when demand for electricity was lower.Spain's Wind Energy Association said at the moment of peak production, the country's turbines were working at 69% of their maximum theoretical potential.Wind energy alone has covered 11.5% of demand so far this year, with production up by a third on last year.The figures came as the World Wildlife Fund praised Spain's rapid move into renewable energies. These provided 31% of total electricity supply in Spain in February, partly thanks to heavy rainfall that increased hydroelectric production.Together with a fall in demand over the past year, that meant a 38% reduction in CO\u00b2 emissions compared with 2008.WWF praised Spain's efforts to develop renewable energy over the past 12 years. It said it was now on target to produce 30% of annual demand for electricity from renewable sources by next year.\"This shows that Spain's commitment to renewable energies is paying off,\" said Heikki Willstedt of WWF. \"This advance has been possible thanks to both the legislative and financial support received.\"He also said that Spain should be able to cover half its energy needs with renewables by 2020 if it maintains its current enthusiasm.", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Renewable energy", "Spain", "Energy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Gales set wind power record for Spain"},{"date": "2009-03-06T15:16:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain set a new record for wind power generation yesterday as gales blew across the country, with more than 40% of the country's energy needs being covered by wind turbines at one stage.The peak of 11,180mw of electricity supply came mid-morning yesterday, as fierce winds swept across much of north-west Spain, where most of the country's extensive wind farms are situated.That covered 29% of Spain's energy needs at the time. The percentage had been even higher, reaching above 40% for several hours, earlier in the morning when demand for electricity was lower.Spain's Wind Energy Association said at the moment of peak production, the country's turbines were working at 69% of their maximum theoretical potential.Wind energy alone has covered 11.5% of demand so far this year, with production up by a third on last year.The figures came as the World Wildlife Fund praised Spain's rapid move into renewable energies. These provided 31% of total electricity supply in Spain in February, partly thanks to heavy rainfall that increased hydroelectric production.Together with a fall in demand over the past year, that meant a 38% reduction in CO\u00b2 emissions compared with 2008.WWF praised Spain's efforts to develop renewable energy over the past 12 years. It said it was now on target to produce 30% of annual demand for electricity from renewable sources by next year.\"This shows that Spain's commitment to renewable energies is paying off,\" said Heikki Willstedt of WWF. \"This advance has been possible thanks to both the legislative and financial support received.\"He also said that Spain should be able to cover half its energy needs with renewables by 2020 if it maintains its current enthusiasm.", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Renewable energy", "Spain", "Energy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Gales set wind power record for Spain"},{"date": "2009-01-07T10:34:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The powers of Strictly Come Dancing know no end \u2013 now it is fuelling the tourist trade. The Daily Express reports that the programme has fuelled a boom in dance holidays, according to consumer group Which Holiday, with Spain and Malta the more popular destinations. Says Which: \"Britain seems to be rekindling a love of dance not seen since wartime.\"", "tags": ["Strictly Come Dancing", "Television industry", "ent and tourismHospitality", " event managem", "Media", "Entertainment", "Television & radio", "Television"], "title": "Media Monkey: Strictly sends punters waltzing off to Spain"},{"date": "2009-06-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "'I am in hell,\" Rosa tells me, as she is lowered by a rope down the cliff face, \"and I hold you personally responsible.\" This isn't what a parent wants to hear on holiday, even if she is - mostly - joking. At least she's not bored. \"Don't worry,\" I call down, trying to hide my own anxiety, \"you'll soon be back on the ground.\"The ground, in this case, is the bottom of a deep canyon in the Sierra Aitana, the beautiful limestone mountains north-east of Alicante. It's our mission to navigate its 5km of cool green water and shady white rock. Once we're inside, there isn't really any other way out, what with vertical cliffs hundreds of feet high surrounding us.Safely down, Rosa, 14, discovers a huge pool of mud and dips her wet-suited body into it, giggling with pleasure. \"It's like bathing in a giant's fart,\" she says. Soon we're all paddling through the canyon, sliding down short drops into deep pools, then swimming out. Over the next four or five hours we're one happy family, for once heading in the same direction.Leading the group is Jonathan, our tough South African guide with the useful trick of tossing rocks ahead of him to scare away any snakes sunbathing in the pools. Our 12-year-old son Joe is agog. This will play big back at school. True, they're not poisonous snakes, but this is no theme park. Jonathan does, however, have a picnic, wrapped inside the dry bag on his back. At lunchtime we bask in sunshine like the snakes, and tuck in.Family activity holidays can seem almost too good to be true: a series of exciting adventures you can all share in, solving the problem of how to fill those long holiday hours while putting colour back in the kids' cheeks after too much screen time at home. (\"Yeah,\" says Joe sardonically, \"quality bonding time.\") And all of it happening in a beautiful place. The reality can be disappointing. Some outdoor centres feel institutional, like school, so while the activities are top-notch, evenings are spent in sterile dining areas or bland rooms with bunk beds - for the adults, too. Opt for your own digs instead, and you can feel disconnected from the action.Then there's the problem of keeping the whole family more or less content. Enthusiasts might know what to expect from each activity, but newcomers can't be expected to enjoy everything that's served up. What if one sibling thrives and the other whines? As Tolstoy said, every unhappy family is miserable in its own way. The ability to bungee jump is one thing, but working with families requires a different skill set.Minutes after arriving at Hort de Gloria, just outside the village of Sella, I could see that Dartmoor-based travel specialists Spirit of Adventure have found the perfect solution. Hort de Gloria is a 200-year-old farm of terraced orchards converted into a beautiful and relaxed guesthouse. Run by Jonathan Neil and his wife Violetta, who grew up on the farm before moving to South Africa, it's hard to imagine a better base for an active family holiday.Walking round the terraces, the air scented with rosemary and fennel, I quickly forgot the skyscrapers of Benidorm just the other side of the mountains. But their impact is still revealed in Sella's landscape. Many of the Sierra Aitana market gardens are falling into disrepair. Mass tourism offers easy pickings compared to the graft of a smallholding, and produce grown in Morocco is cheaper.So Hort de Gloria - the garden of heaven - is a little ray of sustainable sunshine. The farm is organic, and around the table at dinnertime you're likely to find a few \"wwoofers\", volunteer organic farm workers who swap labour for board and lodging. They tend the farm's fruiting trees - with 20 different varieties, something is bound to be in season. We could see lemons and avocados, but were flummoxed by something that looked a bit like apricots but turned out to be loquats, a kind of medlar from China. Rosa and Joe were soon grazing direct from the branch.The farm also produces 2,000kg of olive oil each year, and turns a lot of its fruit into jams and preserves. There are a few chickens running around, so the eggs are fresh, too. Not surprisingly, the food is excellent - something of a relief on the Costa Blanca, where meals out can often be expensive or disappointing, or both.All those fruit trees thrive on a deep, sweet spring, which also feeds a cooling 25m pool and the well in the guesthouse kitchen that is still drawn with a bucket. The swimming pool is home to noisily amorous frogs, and the trees outside our room came equipped with a nightingale, which kept up its musical genius for much of the night.With children of their own, and parents and grandma living close by, Hort de Gloria is habituated to family life and the chaos that can involve. Jonathan was a construction project manager in South Africa and a keen paddler; Vio was a design journalist. Those skills have been put to good use.If Hort de Gloria is a heavenly place to wake up each morning, then it's well placed as an adventure destination, too. Sella is famous among climbers as having some of the best rock in Europe, but it's also a great place to try climbing for the first time. And despite the mauling Valencia's coastal landscapes have suffered in the last few decades, the Sierra Aitana are still wildly beautiful and a popular destination for walkers.There are plenty of mountain biking trails and, being a limestone landscape, the mountains are seamed with canyons and caves to explore. And a short drive south are all the water-based activities you can imagine. You can do most of these things in North Wales, but you aren't guaranteed a warm, friendly sea or sunshine - or an ice-cold gin with lemon that was still on the tree five minutes beforehand.On our first morning, we paddled in double kayaks for an hour or so along the coast from the marina in La Vila Joiosa. A weak swell rocked the boat as we emerged from behind the breakwater, provoking a few squeaks of alarm from Rosa in front - \"Is this normal?\"Paddling behind Rosa was a valuable parenting lesson. It was no use getting frustrated if she missed a stroke or her attention wandered. I just had to fit in around her for a change, timing my effort to match hers. Soon we were moving along nicely, passing a nudist beach - the children somewhat slack-jawed - while the coast gradually revealed some steep cliffs ahead.The plan was to pull the kayaks on to a flat rock below the cliffs, have lunch and swim, but the swell was building under a strengthening wind and Jonathan decided it was too awkward to land, so we elected instead to go back to a beach. First, however, with Rosa proving the star kayaker, Kate decided we should swap boats.So I found myself jumping reluctantly into a sea heaving under the lee of the cliffs. It was beautifully warm, and bobbing about in the waves was good fun, but the children looked rather forlorn alone in their boats, so we cut the bathing short. With the wind now at our backs, we paddled easily back to La Vila Joiosa, where Jonathan took us to a staggeringly good ice-cream shop. Paradise.The trick Spirit of Adventure seems to have managed is providing enough structure to fill your days and keep you active, but enough room to relax together as a family. As well as kayaking down the coast we also took a boat trip and went snorkelling, explored a cave, climbed rocks, rode mountain bikes and spent a day scrambling through that canyon.And yet, as busy as all that sounds, I never felt that the activities had taken over from the spirit of the place. Sella still feels very Spanish, and the easy pace of life was immensely relaxing. There's a feeling around now, promulgated by stunt monkeys on television, that adventure is all about adrenaline and biting the heads off snakes. (Although Bear Grylls would probably like our digs.) Some activity holidays can play up that quasi-military side of things. But the beauty of this holiday is that it focuses on the accommodation and location, not simply dazzling guests with excitement. I prefer kayaking with a man who knows how to build a house rather than blow one up. And while Hort de Gloria could, in all its organicness, seem rather self-righteous, Jonathan and Violetta are too down-to-earth - and fun - to allow that to be the case.The acid test of how the kids felt came on our last day, spent on the coast. After a trip to a shopping mall for Rosa to buy a dress, we headed to Aqualandia, the water-slide theme park on the eastern end of Benidorm. In front of us were the canyons and sheer cliffs of tower blocks. The scent of herbs at Hort de Gloria was replaced by the smell of fast food.For two or three hours we ran up ladders and slid down slides like lemmings on espresso, along with hundreds of others. Rosa and Joe seemed back on familiar ground and loving it - as did their parents, I admit. But, as we drove back to Sella, Rosa said: \"Yeah, fun, but I couldn't do that all week.\" Kids today, eh? No stamina.Getting there Thomson Airways (0871 231 4787, thomson.co.uk/\ufb02ights) \ufb02ies from Gatwick to Alicante from \u00a3109 rtn inc taxes, and \u00a3129 from Manchester. Where to stay Seven nights' full board at Hort de Gloria near Sella costs \u00a3550 per adult and \u00a3440 per child (under 18), including airport transfers, all activities and equipment, with Spirit of Adventure (01822 880277, spirit-of-adventure.com).", "tags": ["Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Sierra Aitana: The perfect family activity holiday in Spain"},{"date": "2009-06-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "'I am in hell,\" Rosa tells me, as she is lowered by a rope down the cliff face, \"and I hold you personally responsible.\" This isn't what a parent wants to hear on holiday, even if she is - mostly - joking. At least she's not bored. \"Don't worry,\" I call down, trying to hide my own anxiety, \"you'll soon be back on the ground.\"The ground, in this case, is the bottom of a deep canyon in the Sierra Aitana, the beautiful limestone mountains north-east of Alicante. It's our mission to navigate its 5km of cool green water and shady white rock. Once we're inside, there isn't really any other way out, what with vertical cliffs hundreds of feet high surrounding us.Safely down, Rosa, 14, discovers a huge pool of mud and dips her wet-suited body into it, giggling with pleasure. \"It's like bathing in a giant's fart,\" she says. Soon we're all paddling through the canyon, sliding down short drops into deep pools, then swimming out. Over the next four or five hours we're one happy family, for once heading in the same direction.Leading the group is Jonathan, our tough South African guide with the useful trick of tossing rocks ahead of him to scare away any snakes sunbathing in the pools. Our 12-year-old son Joe is agog. This will play big back at school. True, they're not poisonous snakes, but this is no theme park. Jonathan does, however, have a picnic, wrapped inside the dry bag on his back. At lunchtime we bask in sunshine like the snakes, and tuck in.Family activity holidays can seem almost too good to be true: a series of exciting adventures you can all share in, solving the problem of how to fill those long holiday hours while putting colour back in the kids' cheeks after too much screen time at home. (\"Yeah,\" says Joe sardonically, \"quality bonding time.\") And all of it happening in a beautiful place. The reality can be disappointing. Some outdoor centres feel institutional, like school, so while the activities are top-notch, evenings are spent in sterile dining areas or bland rooms with bunk beds - for the adults, too. Opt for your own digs instead, and you can feel disconnected from the action.Then there's the problem of keeping the whole family more or less content. Enthusiasts might know what to expect from each activity, but newcomers can't be expected to enjoy everything that's served up. What if one sibling thrives and the other whines? As Tolstoy said, every unhappy family is miserable in its own way. The ability to bungee jump is one thing, but working with families requires a different skill set.Minutes after arriving at Hort de Gloria, just outside the village of Sella, I could see that Dartmoor-based travel specialists Spirit of Adventure have found the perfect solution. Hort de Gloria is a 200-year-old farm of terraced orchards converted into a beautiful and relaxed guesthouse. Run by Jonathan Neil and his wife Violetta, who grew up on the farm before moving to South Africa, it's hard to imagine a better base for an active family holiday.Walking round the terraces, the air scented with rosemary and fennel, I quickly forgot the skyscrapers of Benidorm just the other side of the mountains. But their impact is still revealed in Sella's landscape. Many of the Sierra Aitana market gardens are falling into disrepair. Mass tourism offers easy pickings compared to the graft of a smallholding, and produce grown in Morocco is cheaper.So Hort de Gloria - the garden of heaven - is a little ray of sustainable sunshine. The farm is organic, and around the table at dinnertime you're likely to find a few \"wwoofers\", volunteer organic farm workers who swap labour for board and lodging. They tend the farm's fruiting trees - with 20 different varieties, something is bound to be in season. We could see lemons and avocados, but were flummoxed by something that looked a bit like apricots but turned out to be loquats, a kind of medlar from China. Rosa and Joe were soon grazing direct from the branch.The farm also produces 2,000kg of olive oil each year, and turns a lot of its fruit into jams and preserves. There are a few chickens running around, so the eggs are fresh, too. Not surprisingly, the food is excellent - something of a relief on the Costa Blanca, where meals out can often be expensive or disappointing, or both.All those fruit trees thrive on a deep, sweet spring, which also feeds a cooling 25m pool and the well in the guesthouse kitchen that is still drawn with a bucket. The swimming pool is home to noisily amorous frogs, and the trees outside our room came equipped with a nightingale, which kept up its musical genius for much of the night.With children of their own, and parents and grandma living close by, Hort de Gloria is habituated to family life and the chaos that can involve. Jonathan was a construction project manager in South Africa and a keen paddler; Vio was a design journalist. Those skills have been put to good use.If Hort de Gloria is a heavenly place to wake up each morning, then it's well placed as an adventure destination, too. Sella is famous among climbers as having some of the best rock in Europe, but it's also a great place to try climbing for the first time. And despite the mauling Valencia's coastal landscapes have suffered in the last few decades, the Sierra Aitana are still wildly beautiful and a popular destination for walkers.There are plenty of mountain biking trails and, being a limestone landscape, the mountains are seamed with canyons and caves to explore. And a short drive south are all the water-based activities you can imagine. You can do most of these things in North Wales, but you aren't guaranteed a warm, friendly sea or sunshine - or an ice-cold gin with lemon that was still on the tree five minutes beforehand.On our first morning, we paddled in double kayaks for an hour or so along the coast from the marina in La Vila Joiosa. A weak swell rocked the boat as we emerged from behind the breakwater, provoking a few squeaks of alarm from Rosa in front - \"Is this normal?\"Paddling behind Rosa was a valuable parenting lesson. It was no use getting frustrated if she missed a stroke or her attention wandered. I just had to fit in around her for a change, timing my effort to match hers. Soon we were moving along nicely, passing a nudist beach - the children somewhat slack-jawed - while the coast gradually revealed some steep cliffs ahead.The plan was to pull the kayaks on to a flat rock below the cliffs, have lunch and swim, but the swell was building under a strengthening wind and Jonathan decided it was too awkward to land, so we elected instead to go back to a beach. First, however, with Rosa proving the star kayaker, Kate decided we should swap boats.So I found myself jumping reluctantly into a sea heaving under the lee of the cliffs. It was beautifully warm, and bobbing about in the waves was good fun, but the children looked rather forlorn alone in their boats, so we cut the bathing short. With the wind now at our backs, we paddled easily back to La Vila Joiosa, where Jonathan took us to a staggeringly good ice-cream shop. Paradise.The trick Spirit of Adventure seems to have managed is providing enough structure to fill your days and keep you active, but enough room to relax together as a family. As well as kayaking down the coast we also took a boat trip and went snorkelling, explored a cave, climbed rocks, rode mountain bikes and spent a day scrambling through that canyon.And yet, as busy as all that sounds, I never felt that the activities had taken over from the spirit of the place. Sella still feels very Spanish, and the easy pace of life was immensely relaxing. There's a feeling around now, promulgated by stunt monkeys on television, that adventure is all about adrenaline and biting the heads off snakes. (Although Bear Grylls would probably like our digs.) Some activity holidays can play up that quasi-military side of things. But the beauty of this holiday is that it focuses on the accommodation and location, not simply dazzling guests with excitement. I prefer kayaking with a man who knows how to build a house rather than blow one up. And while Hort de Gloria could, in all its organicness, seem rather self-righteous, Jonathan and Violetta are too down-to-earth - and fun - to allow that to be the case.The acid test of how the kids felt came on our last day, spent on the coast. After a trip to a shopping mall for Rosa to buy a dress, we headed to Aqualandia, the water-slide theme park on the eastern end of Benidorm. In front of us were the canyons and sheer cliffs of tower blocks. The scent of herbs at Hort de Gloria was replaced by the smell of fast food.For two or three hours we ran up ladders and slid down slides like lemmings on espresso, along with hundreds of others. Rosa and Joe seemed back on familiar ground and loving it - as did their parents, I admit. But, as we drove back to Sella, Rosa said: \"Yeah, fun, but I couldn't do that all week.\" Kids today, eh? No stamina.Getting there Thomson Airways (0871 231 4787, thomson.co.uk/\ufb02ights) \ufb02ies from Gatwick to Alicante from \u00a3109 rtn inc taxes, and \u00a3129 from Manchester. Where to stay Seven nights' full board at Hort de Gloria near Sella costs \u00a3550 per adult and \u00a3440 per child (under 18), including airport transfers, all activities and equipment, with Spirit of Adventure (01822 880277, spirit-of-adventure.com).", "tags": ["Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Sierra Aitana: The perfect family activity holiday in Spain"},{"date": "2009-05-29T19:14:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish political party previously aligned with some of the most extreme rightwing parties in Europe and backed by Blas Pi\u00f1ar, a leading apologist for former dictator Francisco Franco, has allied itself with the British Conservative party.Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is the new Spanish partner of choice for the Tories as they turn their backs on pro-European centre-right parties in the European parliament and try to forge new alliances.Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan, a prominent Eurosceptic and Spanish speaker, has been in Spain this week calling for Britons living in the country to vote for Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola.The party defines itself as conservative but, according to its website, backed the so-called Vienna Declaration that brought together extreme rightwing parties from across Europe in 2005. Its allies then were Austria's Freedom party, the French National Front of Jean Marie Le Pen, the Flemish party Vlaams Belang, Alessandra Mussolini's Azione Sociale and extreme rightists from Romania and Bulgaria. Though some of the parties are openly xenophobic or Nazi apologists, Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is not racist.Hannan said last night he had not heard of Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola having been associated with the radical parties that backed the Vienna Declaration. \"It is not only new information to me but it is at odds with what they said to me. I will take it up with them,\" he said. \"If that is true, it is deeply alarming and of course we shouldn't have anything to do with them.\"A Conservative party source said it was a \"fair bet\" that Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola would not join its new group.", "tags": ["European elections", "Conservatives", "European Union", "Politics", "Spain", "UK news", "World news", "The far right", "Europe"], "title": "Conservatives woo far right ally in Spain"},{"date": "2009-06-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "'I am in hell,\" Rosa tells me, as she is lowered by a rope down the cliff face, \"and I hold you personally responsible.\" This isn't what a parent wants to hear on holiday, even if she is - mostly - joking. At least she's not bored. \"Don't worry,\" I call down, trying to hide my own anxiety, \"you'll soon be back on the ground.\"The ground, in this case, is the bottom of a deep canyon in the Sierra Aitana, the beautiful limestone mountains north-east of Alicante. It's our mission to navigate its 5km of cool green water and shady white rock. Once we're inside, there isn't really any other way out, what with vertical cliffs hundreds of feet high surrounding us.Safely down, Rosa, 14, discovers a huge pool of mud and dips her wet-suited body into it, giggling with pleasure. \"It's like bathing in a giant's fart,\" she says. Soon we're all paddling through the canyon, sliding down short drops into deep pools, then swimming out. Over the next four or five hours we're one happy family, for once heading in the same direction.Leading the group is Jonathan, our tough South African guide with the useful trick of tossing rocks ahead of him to scare away any snakes sunbathing in the pools. Our 12-year-old son Joe is agog. This will play big back at school. True, they're not poisonous snakes, but this is no theme park. Jonathan does, however, have a picnic, wrapped inside the dry bag on his back. At lunchtime we bask in sunshine like the snakes, and tuck in.Family activity holidays can seem almost too good to be true: a series of exciting adventures you can all share in, solving the problem of how to fill those long holiday hours while putting colour back in the kids' cheeks after too much screen time at home. (\"Yeah,\" says Joe sardonically, \"quality bonding time.\") And all of it happening in a beautiful place. The reality can be disappointing. Some outdoor centres feel institutional, like school, so while the activities are top-notch, evenings are spent in sterile dining areas or bland rooms with bunk beds - for the adults, too. Opt for your own digs instead, and you can feel disconnected from the action.Then there's the problem of keeping the whole family more or less content. Enthusiasts might know what to expect from each activity, but newcomers can't be expected to enjoy everything that's served up. What if one sibling thrives and the other whines? As Tolstoy said, every unhappy family is miserable in its own way. The ability to bungee jump is one thing, but working with families requires a different skill set.Minutes after arriving at Hort de Gloria, just outside the village of Sella, I could see that Dartmoor-based travel specialists Spirit of Adventure have found the perfect solution. Hort de Gloria is a 200-year-old farm of terraced orchards converted into a beautiful and relaxed guesthouse. Run by Jonathan Neil and his wife Violetta, who grew up on the farm before moving to South Africa, it's hard to imagine a better base for an active family holiday.Walking round the terraces, the air scented with rosemary and fennel, I quickly forgot the skyscrapers of Benidorm just the other side of the mountains. But their impact is still revealed in Sella's landscape. Many of the Sierra Aitana market gardens are falling into disrepair. Mass tourism offers easy pickings compared to the graft of a smallholding, and produce grown in Morocco is cheaper.So Hort de Gloria - the garden of heaven - is a little ray of sustainable sunshine. The farm is organic, and around the table at dinnertime you're likely to find a few \"wwoofers\", volunteer organic farm workers who swap labour for board and lodging. They tend the farm's fruiting trees - with 20 different varieties, something is bound to be in season. We could see lemons and avocados, but were flummoxed by something that looked a bit like apricots but turned out to be loquats, a kind of medlar from China. Rosa and Joe were soon grazing direct from the branch.The farm also produces 2,000kg of olive oil each year, and turns a lot of its fruit into jams and preserves. There are a few chickens running around, so the eggs are fresh, too. Not surprisingly, the food is excellent - something of a relief on the Costa Blanca, where meals out can often be expensive or disappointing, or both.All those fruit trees thrive on a deep, sweet spring, which also feeds a cooling 25m pool and the well in the guesthouse kitchen that is still drawn with a bucket. The swimming pool is home to noisily amorous frogs, and the trees outside our room came equipped with a nightingale, which kept up its musical genius for much of the night.With children of their own, and parents and grandma living close by, Hort de Gloria is habituated to family life and the chaos that can involve. Jonathan was a construction project manager in South Africa and a keen paddler; Vio was a design journalist. Those skills have been put to good use.If Hort de Gloria is a heavenly place to wake up each morning, then it's well placed as an adventure destination, too. Sella is famous among climbers as having some of the best rock in Europe, but it's also a great place to try climbing for the first time. And despite the mauling Valencia's coastal landscapes have suffered in the last few decades, the Sierra Aitana are still wildly beautiful and a popular destination for walkers.There are plenty of mountain biking trails and, being a limestone landscape, the mountains are seamed with canyons and caves to explore. And a short drive south are all the water-based activities you can imagine. You can do most of these things in North Wales, but you aren't guaranteed a warm, friendly sea or sunshine - or an ice-cold gin with lemon that was still on the tree five minutes beforehand.On our first morning, we paddled in double kayaks for an hour or so along the coast from the marina in La Vila Joiosa. A weak swell rocked the boat as we emerged from behind the breakwater, provoking a few squeaks of alarm from Rosa in front - \"Is this normal?\"Paddling behind Rosa was a valuable parenting lesson. It was no use getting frustrated if she missed a stroke or her attention wandered. I just had to fit in around her for a change, timing my effort to match hers. Soon we were moving along nicely, passing a nudist beach - the children somewhat slack-jawed - while the coast gradually revealed some steep cliffs ahead.The plan was to pull the kayaks on to a flat rock below the cliffs, have lunch and swim, but the swell was building under a strengthening wind and Jonathan decided it was too awkward to land, so we elected instead to go back to a beach. First, however, with Rosa proving the star kayaker, Kate decided we should swap boats.So I found myself jumping reluctantly into a sea heaving under the lee of the cliffs. It was beautifully warm, and bobbing about in the waves was good fun, but the children looked rather forlorn alone in their boats, so we cut the bathing short. With the wind now at our backs, we paddled easily back to La Vila Joiosa, where Jonathan took us to a staggeringly good ice-cream shop. Paradise.The trick Spirit of Adventure seems to have managed is providing enough structure to fill your days and keep you active, but enough room to relax together as a family. As well as kayaking down the coast we also took a boat trip and went snorkelling, explored a cave, climbed rocks, rode mountain bikes and spent a day scrambling through that canyon.And yet, as busy as all that sounds, I never felt that the activities had taken over from the spirit of the place. Sella still feels very Spanish, and the easy pace of life was immensely relaxing. There's a feeling around now, promulgated by stunt monkeys on television, that adventure is all about adrenaline and biting the heads off snakes. (Although Bear Grylls would probably like our digs.) Some activity holidays can play up that quasi-military side of things. But the beauty of this holiday is that it focuses on the accommodation and location, not simply dazzling guests with excitement. I prefer kayaking with a man who knows how to build a house rather than blow one up. And while Hort de Gloria could, in all its organicness, seem rather self-righteous, Jonathan and Violetta are too down-to-earth - and fun - to allow that to be the case.The acid test of how the kids felt came on our last day, spent on the coast. After a trip to a shopping mall for Rosa to buy a dress, we headed to Aqualandia, the water-slide theme park on the eastern end of Benidorm. In front of us were the canyons and sheer cliffs of tower blocks. The scent of herbs at Hort de Gloria was replaced by the smell of fast food.For two or three hours we ran up ladders and slid down slides like lemmings on espresso, along with hundreds of others. Rosa and Joe seemed back on familiar ground and loving it - as did their parents, I admit. But, as we drove back to Sella, Rosa said: \"Yeah, fun, but I couldn't do that all week.\" Kids today, eh? No stamina.Getting there Thomson Airways (0871 231 4787, thomson.co.uk/\ufb02ights) \ufb02ies from Gatwick to Alicante from \u00a3109 rtn inc taxes, and \u00a3129 from Manchester. Where to stay Seven nights' full board at Hort de Gloria near Sella costs \u00a3550 per adult and \u00a3440 per child (under 18), including airport transfers, all activities and equipment, with Spirit of Adventure (01822 880277, spirit-of-adventure.com).", "tags": ["Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Sierra Aitana: The perfect family activity holiday in Spain"},{"date": "2009-05-29T19:14:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish political party previously aligned with some of the most extreme rightwing parties in Europe and backed by Blas Pi\u00f1ar, a leading apologist for former dictator Francisco Franco, has allied itself with the British Conservative party.Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is the new Spanish partner of choice for the Tories as they turn their backs on pro-European centre-right parties in the European parliament and try to forge new alliances.Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan, a prominent Eurosceptic and Spanish speaker, has been in Spain this week calling for Britons living in the country to vote for Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola.The party defines itself as conservative but, according to its website, backed the so-called Vienna Declaration that brought together extreme rightwing parties from across Europe in 2005. Its allies then were Austria's Freedom party, the French National Front of Jean Marie Le Pen, the Flemish party Vlaams Belang, Alessandra Mussolini's Azione Sociale and extreme rightists from Romania and Bulgaria. Though some of the parties are openly xenophobic or Nazi apologists, Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is not racist.Hannan said last night he had not heard of Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola having been associated with the radical parties that backed the Vienna Declaration. \"It is not only new information to me but it is at odds with what they said to me. I will take it up with them,\" he said. \"If that is true, it is deeply alarming and of course we shouldn't have anything to do with them.\"A Conservative party source said it was a \"fair bet\" that Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola would not join its new group.", "tags": ["European elections", "Conservatives", "European Union", "Politics", "Spain", "UK news", "World news", "The far right", "Europe"], "title": "Conservatives woo far right ally in Spain"},{"date": "2009-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twenty years ago, when first I encountered the lady, her arms were raised in silent supplication towards a brooding Glasgow sky and I was surprised because I hadn't known she was here and, in any case, I had not expected to see her so far away from home. And then I read the words underneath written by an appreciative city that knows a little about warriors and sacrifice and I looked again and realised that this was no supplicant. For she was in mid-stride and she was calling out to a city to come to the aid of her people.From all parts of Scotland, more than 500 heeded her call to arms in 1936 to fight for equality and democracy against an implacable fascist despot in the Spanish Civil War. Her name is Dolores Ib\u00e1rruri G\u00f3mez, Basque daughter of republican Spain known as La Pasionara, whose siren entreaties led 53 Glaswegians alone to shed their blood for a sacred cause.For 30 years now, she has been cast in bronze watching over the river but tucked away at the foot of a railway bridge out of sight of the grandchildren of those who followed her. And last week, modern Spain finally invited the last surviving British and Irish volunteers to her cause to become citizens of the country for whose freedom and democracy they had risked all.No other country gave proportionately more of her sons and daughters than Scotland to the International Brigades that fought to protect Spain's democratic popular republic from the malign forces of Franco's nationalists.They emerged from all parts of the country; from the coalfields of Fife and the grimy back streets of Dundee to the slum dwellings of Shettleston, among them five men from three neighbouring streets. Some were members of the Communist party and were bound by duty to join with their Spanish brethren against fascism. Others were simply drawn to a struggle that they felt would define their role and the role of their children in the latter part of the 20th century.And from Glasgow a group of volunteers could not resist the opportunity of administering a right good kicking to a Catholic tyrant and his papish hordes. Was this the International Bridgeton Loyal Brigade which had been captivated by La Pasionara's cry of \"No Pasar\u00e1n\", which in Glasgow/Ulster usage loosely translates as \"No Surrender\"?There were 30,000 citizens of more than 20 countries in the International Brigades, but there has always been puzzlement as to why the fires of a distant republic burned so fiercely in the souls of so many poor and disenfranchised Scots. Many were still pock-marked with the recent scars of a real depression when few had a job and welfare depended on the whim of Westminster's privileged few. Surely these people had their own troubles to dispute without seeking other people's?Yet the very yoke of their deprivation gave them the liberty to fight for Spain, for there was nothing to keep them at home and little to hope for in the future. Somehow, they all knew that the forces of oppression, aristocratic privilege and unreformed hierarchy had to be resisted, even in the face of defeat. For if not, the seeds of equality taking root in an unfair world would be trampled by many more militaristic rascals in a white uniform and a general's hat.And how had a supposedly uneducated and surly underclass obtained the knowledge and political sophistication to understand a war of ideas occurring in another world and in a fairy-tale language? Again though, their poverty was their opportunity. For every man who bought solace at the bottom of a glass of stout in a Gallowgate drinking hole, there was another who sought deliverance by political discourse and agitation.In John MacLean, Manny Shinwell, John Wheatley, Willie Gallacher and James Maxton, they had visionary political leaders who channelled their anger and showed them the possibility of a world where a man might be educated, work and contribute to government and the law.Winston Churchill knew this too and this was why his tanks pitched up on George Square in 1919. Poor old Winnie must have thought that a new Soviet Republic was under construction in the second city of an empire built by his class alone and for his class alone. So when Dolores Ib\u00e1rruri G\u00f3mez drew her line in the soil of Spain and issued her clarion call there was a readymade and motivated working-class battalion prepared to join her in a war whose importance resonated far, far beyond Spain.The immediate implications of this first great ideological struggle were soon overshadowed by Adolf Hitler and the Third Reich, but Picasso and Hemingway knew that they had to bear witness to Spain for the rest of the world.And so did 500 Scottish men and women who knew that they had, at last, come into their time.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Spain", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "Be proud of those who fought in Spain | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2009-06-05T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "'I am in hell,\" Rosa tells me, as she is lowered by a rope down the cliff face, \"and I hold you personally responsible.\" This isn't what a parent wants to hear on holiday, even if she is - mostly - joking. At least she's not bored. \"Don't worry,\" I call down, trying to hide my own anxiety, \"you'll soon be back on the ground.\"The ground, in this case, is the bottom of a deep canyon in the Sierra Aitana, the beautiful limestone mountains north-east of Alicante. It's our mission to navigate its 5km of cool green water and shady white rock. Once we're inside, there isn't really any other way out, what with vertical cliffs hundreds of feet high surrounding us.Safely down, Rosa, 14, discovers a huge pool of mud and dips her wet-suited body into it, giggling with pleasure. \"It's like bathing in a giant's fart,\" she says. Soon we're all paddling through the canyon, sliding down short drops into deep pools, then swimming out. Over the next four or five hours we're one happy family, for once heading in the same direction.Leading the group is Jonathan, our tough South African guide with the useful trick of tossing rocks ahead of him to scare away any snakes sunbathing in the pools. Our 12-year-old son Joe is agog. This will play big back at school. True, they're not poisonous snakes, but this is no theme park. Jonathan does, however, have a picnic, wrapped inside the dry bag on his back. At lunchtime we bask in sunshine like the snakes, and tuck in.Family activity holidays can seem almost too good to be true: a series of exciting adventures you can all share in, solving the problem of how to fill those long holiday hours while putting colour back in the kids' cheeks after too much screen time at home. (\"Yeah,\" says Joe sardonically, \"quality bonding time.\") And all of it happening in a beautiful place. The reality can be disappointing. Some outdoor centres feel institutional, like school, so while the activities are top-notch, evenings are spent in sterile dining areas or bland rooms with bunk beds - for the adults, too. Opt for your own digs instead, and you can feel disconnected from the action.Then there's the problem of keeping the whole family more or less content. Enthusiasts might know what to expect from each activity, but newcomers can't be expected to enjoy everything that's served up. What if one sibling thrives and the other whines? As Tolstoy said, every unhappy family is miserable in its own way. The ability to bungee jump is one thing, but working with families requires a different skill set.Minutes after arriving at Hort de Gloria, just outside the village of Sella, I could see that Dartmoor-based travel specialists Spirit of Adventure have found the perfect solution. Hort de Gloria is a 200-year-old farm of terraced orchards converted into a beautiful and relaxed guesthouse. Run by Jonathan Neil and his wife Violetta, who grew up on the farm before moving to South Africa, it's hard to imagine a better base for an active family holiday.Walking round the terraces, the air scented with rosemary and fennel, I quickly forgot the skyscrapers of Benidorm just the other side of the mountains. But their impact is still revealed in Sella's landscape. Many of the Sierra Aitana market gardens are falling into disrepair. Mass tourism offers easy pickings compared to the graft of a smallholding, and produce grown in Morocco is cheaper.So Hort de Gloria - the garden of heaven - is a little ray of sustainable sunshine. The farm is organic, and around the table at dinnertime you're likely to find a few \"wwoofers\", volunteer organic farm workers who swap labour for board and lodging. They tend the farm's fruiting trees - with 20 different varieties, something is bound to be in season. We could see lemons and avocados, but were flummoxed by something that looked a bit like apricots but turned out to be loquats, a kind of medlar from China. Rosa and Joe were soon grazing direct from the branch.The farm also produces 2,000kg of olive oil each year, and turns a lot of its fruit into jams and preserves. There are a few chickens running around, so the eggs are fresh, too. Not surprisingly, the food is excellent - something of a relief on the Costa Blanca, where meals out can often be expensive or disappointing, or both.All those fruit trees thrive on a deep, sweet spring, which also feeds a cooling 25m pool and the well in the guesthouse kitchen that is still drawn with a bucket. The swimming pool is home to noisily amorous frogs, and the trees outside our room came equipped with a nightingale, which kept up its musical genius for much of the night.With children of their own, and parents and grandma living close by, Hort de Gloria is habituated to family life and the chaos that can involve. Jonathan was a construction project manager in South Africa and a keen paddler; Vio was a design journalist. Those skills have been put to good use.If Hort de Gloria is a heavenly place to wake up each morning, then it's well placed as an adventure destination, too. Sella is famous among climbers as having some of the best rock in Europe, but it's also a great place to try climbing for the first time. And despite the mauling Valencia's coastal landscapes have suffered in the last few decades, the Sierra Aitana are still wildly beautiful and a popular destination for walkers.There are plenty of mountain biking trails and, being a limestone landscape, the mountains are seamed with canyons and caves to explore. And a short drive south are all the water-based activities you can imagine. You can do most of these things in North Wales, but you aren't guaranteed a warm, friendly sea or sunshine - or an ice-cold gin with lemon that was still on the tree five minutes beforehand.On our first morning, we paddled in double kayaks for an hour or so along the coast from the marina in La Vila Joiosa. A weak swell rocked the boat as we emerged from behind the breakwater, provoking a few squeaks of alarm from Rosa in front - \"Is this normal?\"Paddling behind Rosa was a valuable parenting lesson. It was no use getting frustrated if she missed a stroke or her attention wandered. I just had to fit in around her for a change, timing my effort to match hers. Soon we were moving along nicely, passing a nudist beach - the children somewhat slack-jawed - while the coast gradually revealed some steep cliffs ahead.The plan was to pull the kayaks on to a flat rock below the cliffs, have lunch and swim, but the swell was building under a strengthening wind and Jonathan decided it was too awkward to land, so we elected instead to go back to a beach. First, however, with Rosa proving the star kayaker, Kate decided we should swap boats.So I found myself jumping reluctantly into a sea heaving under the lee of the cliffs. It was beautifully warm, and bobbing about in the waves was good fun, but the children looked rather forlorn alone in their boats, so we cut the bathing short. With the wind now at our backs, we paddled easily back to La Vila Joiosa, where Jonathan took us to a staggeringly good ice-cream shop. Paradise.The trick Spirit of Adventure seems to have managed is providing enough structure to fill your days and keep you active, but enough room to relax together as a family. As well as kayaking down the coast we also took a boat trip and went snorkelling, explored a cave, climbed rocks, rode mountain bikes and spent a day scrambling through that canyon.And yet, as busy as all that sounds, I never felt that the activities had taken over from the spirit of the place. Sella still feels very Spanish, and the easy pace of life was immensely relaxing. There's a feeling around now, promulgated by stunt monkeys on television, that adventure is all about adrenaline and biting the heads off snakes. (Although Bear Grylls would probably like our digs.) Some activity holidays can play up that quasi-military side of things. But the beauty of this holiday is that it focuses on the accommodation and location, not simply dazzling guests with excitement. I prefer kayaking with a man who knows how to build a house rather than blow one up. And while Hort de Gloria could, in all its organicness, seem rather self-righteous, Jonathan and Violetta are too down-to-earth - and fun - to allow that to be the case.The acid test of how the kids felt came on our last day, spent on the coast. After a trip to a shopping mall for Rosa to buy a dress, we headed to Aqualandia, the water-slide theme park on the eastern end of Benidorm. In front of us were the canyons and sheer cliffs of tower blocks. The scent of herbs at Hort de Gloria was replaced by the smell of fast food.For two or three hours we ran up ladders and slid down slides like lemmings on espresso, along with hundreds of others. Rosa and Joe seemed back on familiar ground and loving it - as did their parents, I admit. But, as we drove back to Sella, Rosa said: \"Yeah, fun, but I couldn't do that all week.\" Kids today, eh? No stamina.Getting there Thomson Airways (0871 231 4787, thomson.co.uk/\ufb02ights) \ufb02ies from Gatwick to Alicante from \u00a3109 rtn inc taxes, and \u00a3129 from Manchester. Where to stay Seven nights' full board at Hort de Gloria near Sella costs \u00a3550 per adult and \u00a3440 per child (under 18), including airport transfers, all activities and equipment, with Spirit of Adventure (01822 880277, spirit-of-adventure.com).", "tags": ["Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Spain holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Sierra Aitana: The perfect family activity holiday in Spain"},{"date": "2009-05-29T19:14:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish political party previously aligned with some of the most extreme rightwing parties in Europe and backed by Blas Pi\u00f1ar, a leading apologist for former dictator Francisco Franco, has allied itself with the British Conservative party.Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is the new Spanish partner of choice for the Tories as they turn their backs on pro-European centre-right parties in the European parliament and try to forge new alliances.Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan, a prominent Eurosceptic and Spanish speaker, has been in Spain this week calling for Britons living in the country to vote for Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola.The party defines itself as conservative but, according to its website, backed the so-called Vienna Declaration that brought together extreme rightwing parties from across Europe in 2005. Its allies then were Austria's Freedom party, the French National Front of Jean Marie Le Pen, the Flemish party Vlaams Belang, Alessandra Mussolini's Azione Sociale and extreme rightists from Romania and Bulgaria. Though some of the parties are openly xenophobic or Nazi apologists, Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola says it is not racist.Hannan said last night he had not heard of Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola having been associated with the radical parties that backed the Vienna Declaration. \"It is not only new information to me but it is at odds with what they said to me. I will take it up with them,\" he said. \"If that is true, it is deeply alarming and of course we shouldn't have anything to do with them.\"A Conservative party source said it was a \"fair bet\" that Alternativa Espa\u00f1ola would not join its new group.", "tags": ["European elections", "Conservatives", "European Union", "Politics", "Spain", "UK news", "World news", "The far right", "Europe"], "title": "Conservatives woo far right ally in Spain"},{"date": "2009-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twenty years ago, when first I encountered the lady, her arms were raised in silent supplication towards a brooding Glasgow sky and I was surprised because I hadn't known she was here and, in any case, I had not expected to see her so far away from home. And then I read the words underneath written by an appreciative city that knows a little about warriors and sacrifice and I looked again and realised that this was no supplicant. For she was in mid-stride and she was calling out to a city to come to the aid of her people.From all parts of Scotland, more than 500 heeded her call to arms in 1936 to fight for equality and democracy against an implacable fascist despot in the Spanish Civil War. Her name is Dolores Ib\u00e1rruri G\u00f3mez, Basque daughter of republican Spain known as La Pasionara, whose siren entreaties led 53 Glaswegians alone to shed their blood for a sacred cause.For 30 years now, she has been cast in bronze watching over the river but tucked away at the foot of a railway bridge out of sight of the grandchildren of those who followed her. And last week, modern Spain finally invited the last surviving British and Irish volunteers to her cause to become citizens of the country for whose freedom and democracy they had risked all.No other country gave proportionately more of her sons and daughters than Scotland to the International Brigades that fought to protect Spain's democratic popular republic from the malign forces of Franco's nationalists.They emerged from all parts of the country; from the coalfields of Fife and the grimy back streets of Dundee to the slum dwellings of Shettleston, among them five men from three neighbouring streets. Some were members of the Communist party and were bound by duty to join with their Spanish brethren against fascism. Others were simply drawn to a struggle that they felt would define their role and the role of their children in the latter part of the 20th century.And from Glasgow a group of volunteers could not resist the opportunity of administering a right good kicking to a Catholic tyrant and his papish hordes. Was this the International Bridgeton Loyal Brigade which had been captivated by La Pasionara's cry of \"No Pasar\u00e1n\", which in Glasgow/Ulster usage loosely translates as \"No Surrender\"?There were 30,000 citizens of more than 20 countries in the International Brigades, but there has always been puzzlement as to why the fires of a distant republic burned so fiercely in the souls of so many poor and disenfranchised Scots. Many were still pock-marked with the recent scars of a real depression when few had a job and welfare depended on the whim of Westminster's privileged few. Surely these people had their own troubles to dispute without seeking other people's?Yet the very yoke of their deprivation gave them the liberty to fight for Spain, for there was nothing to keep them at home and little to hope for in the future. Somehow, they all knew that the forces of oppression, aristocratic privilege and unreformed hierarchy had to be resisted, even in the face of defeat. For if not, the seeds of equality taking root in an unfair world would be trampled by many more militaristic rascals in a white uniform and a general's hat.And how had a supposedly uneducated and surly underclass obtained the knowledge and political sophistication to understand a war of ideas occurring in another world and in a fairy-tale language? Again though, their poverty was their opportunity. For every man who bought solace at the bottom of a glass of stout in a Gallowgate drinking hole, there was another who sought deliverance by political discourse and agitation.In John MacLean, Manny Shinwell, John Wheatley, Willie Gallacher and James Maxton, they had visionary political leaders who channelled their anger and showed them the possibility of a world where a man might be educated, work and contribute to government and the law.Winston Churchill knew this too and this was why his tanks pitched up on George Square in 1919. Poor old Winnie must have thought that a new Soviet Republic was under construction in the second city of an empire built by his class alone and for his class alone. So when Dolores Ib\u00e1rruri G\u00f3mez drew her line in the soil of Spain and issued her clarion call there was a readymade and motivated working-class battalion prepared to join her in a war whose importance resonated far, far beyond Spain.The immediate implications of this first great ideological struggle were soon overshadowed by Adolf Hitler and the Third Reich, but Picasso and Hemingway knew that they had to bear witness to Spain for the rest of the world.And so did 500 Scottish men and women who knew that they had, at last, come into their time.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Spain", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "Be proud of those who fought in Spain | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2009-05-29T23:05:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Barcelona? No, Brighton! Western Road, in the East Sussex town, to be exact. This is just one of a number of shopping streets across the country where, come next year, you may well encounter as many as three identically-branded branches of Spanish-owned bank Santander, all just a stone's throw from each other.It emerged this week that Abbey, Alliance\u00ad & Leicester and Bradford\u00ad & Bingley are all to be renamed in a \u00a312m rebranding exercise \u2013 bringing to an end hundreds of years of financial history. By the end of 2010, that means there will be more than 1,300 Santander branches across the UK.And, rather than a massive branch-closure programme, Santander says it is \"fully committed to maintaining the size of our branch network\".A spokeswoman accepts this could mean that, in locations where there is currently an Abbey, an A&L and a B&B branch \u2013 such as Western Road and Guildford High Street \u2013 you could end up with three Santanders.Apparently this isn't unusual in Spain, and Santander has indicated that closing one (or two) of those three branches might not make sense on the grounds that there will still be the same number of customers to service.But, at the same time, it is not completely ruling out closures. On its website it says: \"Inevitably there will be areas where we have two or even three branches near to each other. Where this happens, we will review their \u00adlocations to see how best we can serve the community. In some cases, this might mean some locations could change, although we will maintain the overall size of the network.\"One of the most important issues for savers will be the cover they receive from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), the official safety net for customers of financial firms that have gone bust. The scheme covers the first \u00a350,000 a saver holds with an individual bank, but if one bank is running two savings providers under the same banking licence, sometimes only one set of protection applies.Abbey and B&B share a licence, while A&L has a separate one \u2013 so someone with money in both gets two lots of protection. Santander says: \"There are no plans to change that, especially as the A&L brand will stay until the end of\u00a02010.\"", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Money"], "title": "The reign of Spain in our high streets"},{"date": "2009-07-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An exhibition of some 130 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs charts a period in which Spanish culture flourished, despite - or perhaps partly as a result of - extreme political upheaval, from the peninsular war of 1807-14 to the Spanish civil war of 1936-39. It's a remarkable display of passion and tragedy, of deep spiritual aspiration and desperate social disillusionment that became a major influence on western culture. Goya's Disasters Of War etchings are quite possibly one of the most powerfully moving anti-war statements of all time. Each incisive victim and sky of acidic darkness speaks of the artist's deep disgust. Elsewhere, Picasso's Weeping Woman is a fragmented portrait of vulnerable beauty shattered.", "tags": ["Exhibitions", "Art and design", "Culture", "Scotland and Ireland listings", "National Gallery"], "title": "Exhibitions preview: The Discovery Of Spain, Edinburgh"},{"date": "2009-07-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An exhibition of some 130 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs charts a period in which Spanish culture flourished, despite - or perhaps partly as a result of - extreme political upheaval, from the peninsular war of 1807-14 to the Spanish civil war of 1936-39. It's a remarkable display of passion and tragedy, of deep spiritual aspiration and desperate social disillusionment that became a major influence on western culture. Goya's Disasters Of War etchings are quite possibly one of the most powerfully moving anti-war statements of all time. Each incisive victim and sky of acidic darkness speaks of the artist's deep disgust. Elsewhere, Picasso's Weeping Woman is a fragmented portrait of vulnerable beauty shattered.", "tags": ["Exhibitions", "Art and design", "Culture", "Scotland and Ireland listings", "National Gallery"], "title": "Exhibitions preview: The Discovery Of Spain, Edinburgh"},{"date": "2009-07-01T09:28:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A British man on a skydiving beginners' course in Spain fell 13,000ft to his death yesterday after apparently going into a state of shock in the air.Police said Richard Taylor, 34, fell \"like a lead weight\" after he did not open his parachute and his automatic emergency chute failed. The accident at at the Airelibre school in Ocana, central Spain, happened on Taylor's fifth jump.\"We are devastated by this tragic accident,\" said a school spokesman, David Coleman. \"He was on his fifth jump and had previously done absolutely everything right, showing great control and altitude awareness. He had been in freefall for about a minute when he curled up into a ball, probably as a result of going into shock.\"Coleman said the instructor tried to catch up with Taylor, who was on a beginners' course with four British friends, but he was falling too fast because he was curled up.\"The instructor gave hand signals telling him to open his chute, but he did not respond,\" Coleman said. \"Eventually the instructor had to open his own parachute.\"An emergency parachute should have activated but because Taylor was curled up in a ball a line got caught on his arm and it could not open properly.The mayor of Ocana, Jos\u00e9 Carlos Martinez Osteso, said police had established that neither of Taylor's parachutes opened.Houdi de la Fuente, the commercial director of Airelibre, said: \"This is incredibly sad, he was a young man who was full of life and dreams and excitement. For him to have his life cut short like this is absolutely tragic.\"Taylor is the second Briton to die at the school. Andrew Bearne, 39, from Guildford, Surrey, crash-landed after apparently blacking out on his first solo skydive last August.Three years ago a mother of four, Anna Endicott, 31, from Thornby, Gloucestershire, died when she collided with her instructor in the same part of Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "British skydiver dies in Spain parachute accident"},{"date": "2009-07-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An exhibition of some 130 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs charts a period in which Spanish culture flourished, despite - or perhaps partly as a result of - extreme political upheaval, from the peninsular war of 1807-14 to the Spanish civil war of 1936-39. It's a remarkable display of passion and tragedy, of deep spiritual aspiration and desperate social disillusionment that became a major influence on western culture. Goya's Disasters Of War etchings are quite possibly one of the most powerfully moving anti-war statements of all time. Each incisive victim and sky of acidic darkness speaks of the artist's deep disgust. Elsewhere, Picasso's Weeping Woman is a fragmented portrait of vulnerable beauty shattered.", "tags": ["Exhibitions", "Art and design", "Culture", "Scotland and Ireland listings", "National Gallery"], "title": "Exhibitions preview: The Discovery Of Spain, Edinburgh"},{"date": "2009-07-01T09:28:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A British man on a skydiving beginners' course in Spain fell 13,000ft to his death yesterday after apparently going into a state of shock in the air.Police said Richard Taylor, 34, fell \"like a lead weight\" after he did not open his parachute and his automatic emergency chute failed. The accident at at the Airelibre school in Ocana, central Spain, happened on Taylor's fifth jump.\"We are devastated by this tragic accident,\" said a school spokesman, David Coleman. \"He was on his fifth jump and had previously done absolutely everything right, showing great control and altitude awareness. He had been in freefall for about a minute when he curled up into a ball, probably as a result of going into shock.\"Coleman said the instructor tried to catch up with Taylor, who was on a beginners' course with four British friends, but he was falling too fast because he was curled up.\"The instructor gave hand signals telling him to open his chute, but he did not respond,\" Coleman said. \"Eventually the instructor had to open his own parachute.\"An emergency parachute should have activated but because Taylor was curled up in a ball a line got caught on his arm and it could not open properly.The mayor of Ocana, Jos\u00e9 Carlos Martinez Osteso, said police had established that neither of Taylor's parachutes opened.Houdi de la Fuente, the commercial director of Airelibre, said: \"This is incredibly sad, he was a young man who was full of life and dreams and excitement. For him to have his life cut short like this is absolutely tragic.\"Taylor is the second Briton to die at the school. Andrew Bearne, 39, from Guildford, Surrey, crash-landed after apparently blacking out on his first solo skydive last August.Three years ago a mother of four, Anna Endicott, 31, from Thornby, Gloucestershire, died when she collided with her instructor in the same part of Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "British skydiver dies in Spain parachute accident"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I felt more like Gil Grissom from CSI than Indiana Jones when I finally managed to cup my hands round Curly's smashed-in skull and lift it out of his hastily dug grave in one piece. It had taken four hours and a lot of patience, bent over in the 30C Spanish heat, to finally free the skull from the concrete-like grasp of the 1,700-year-old dirt. One slip and his bones would have crumbled to dust. Curly - named after the third Marx brother by the volunteer who discovered him - was the last of 30 skeletons discovered unexpectedly in shallow graves back stage of the largest theatre in Roman Spain at Clunia. Three hours drive north-west of Madrid and an hour from the nearest supermarket, the theatre is now the gateway from the medieval village of Pe\u00f1alba de Castro to the beautiful mosaics and massive foundations of the ruined Roman city.Thirty people had been buried in a rush, and the only clue so far as to who they were, or why they died, was a single arrow head found in one of the graves.Working on an archaeological dig is not many people's dream holiday, but I had decided to spend a week at Clunia to find out why it is growing in popularity. Clunia's sun, location and all inclusive package of accommodation, food and excursions, seemed more appealing than the bring-your-own-tent-and-food approach of a soggy dig in Britain.According to Lisa Westcott, editor of Current Archaeology, this will have been the biggest summer yet for archaeological volunteering, with more than 300 digs in the UK alone. \"Volunteering is really taking off because it is a great alternative for recession-hit Britain,\" she says. \"Volunteers who don't have to have any previous experience of archaeology can spend two weeks away for almost nothing.\"Go further afield, as I did, and it may not be so cheap but the limited numbers of archaeologists on many excavations gives volunteers the chance to be involved in every aspect of the dig. Mysteries swirl around the largely unexcavated ruins of Clunia, one of the most important cities in Roman Spain. Built by the Romans on the massive 3,360ft Alto de Castro plateau soon after they had conquered the area in 55BC, the city was given a monumental makeover in the first century AD, which included the construction of a huge, 9,000-seat theatre. By the end of the second century AD the theatre's stage and one third of the seats had been torn out to make way for a circus arena. Barely 100 years later, both the city and theatre had largely been abandoned.I arrived at the site to find Mike Elkin, the American archaeologist in charge of the volunteers, already having lunch at a long table with 30 archaeologists, Spanish students and volunteers. The vest tops at the table were distinctly tighter and the tans deeper than on Channel 4's Time Team, and the rapid fire Spanish of the archaeologists a challenge for my Spanglish. Mike gave up a high-flying financial career at Bloombergs in Madrid to pursue his first love of archaeology, which he had studied at university. He explained that each summer he brings seven volunteers to the dig, which is run by the universities of Barcelona, Valladolid and Burgos. Many - like me - have no previous experience of archaeology. I would be staying in one of two shared and rather basic flats in the local village of Pe\u00f1alba de Castro. The working day began at 7am and finished at 3pm. After that there was a big sit down lunch, followed by dinner at 9.30pm. In between the hours were our own; sometimes there were excursions to explore the region. The first day I felt a tingle of excitement when we crossed the \"PROHIBIDO EL PASO\" cordon at the entrance to the site and turned from visitors to archaeologists. And there was something magical when professor Francesc Tuest started spraying the patch of dirt we were digging with water to reveal the edges of a pit that had been filled with rubble almost 2,000 years ago. Francesc explained that archaeology was like removing the flesh of an orange while leaving the skin intact, his way of reminding us that rather than just the brute force of \"pico, pico, pico\" - the Spanish for pick axe - we had to find the edge of the pit, identify layers and watch out for artefacts.Then, a eureka moment - I saw something pale and grooved in the dirt. Bending down I realised I had found a fragment of Roman pottery. While the professionals just shrugged and threw it into the finds tray, to me it was special and deeply satisfying that I had only previously seen in a museum display case.Although there was rarely a chance to shower before lunch, there was always time for a Mahon - the regional beer. At 3pm we headed to Restaurant Los Cuatro Bolos in nearby Huerta de Rey for a three-course lunch: rustic dishes such as oreja de cardo (fried pig's ear) and never-ending glasses of tinto de verano (rough local red wine mixed with sweet tonic water), which helped both to break down barriers and turn the meals into Spanish lessons. In the afternoon it was too hot to work so we would explore the countryside by taking one of the shepherd trails lined with sunflowers that spread out from the village, or better still, by jumping into Mike's Land Rover to kick up dust along the back roads and through villages where dogs chased the wheels of passing cars.One such trip took us to the ruins of the Roman city of Tiermes. Hidden among pine forests and limestone cliffs, it looked more like the wild west than modern Spain, with houses, gateways and aqueducts that had been carved into a large limestone outcrop. One of Tiermes' aqueducts plunged us into the total darkness of an 80m underground tunnel; we stumbled along it before being thrown out into the blinking daylight and thyme-scented air of a ruined hilltop mansion.Another trip took us to a mass grave from the Spanish civil war of the 1930s. It had been discovered only three days before. The Republican flag still flew proudly over a black canopy that hid the skeletons of the 46 victims of the Nationalist death squads buried in two trenches. The local mayor was sitting on his knees as he helped to scrape the dirt from the bones, as if in an act of penance. The gold filings still shone from the bullet-holed skulls.Back at Clunia I was told, at last, that I could take my turn excavating Curly. I was even more surprised when that night I was asked by one of the archaeologists in Spanish whether I would like to come back next year, and I answered \"Si!\".ArchaeoSpain (+1 866 932 0003) is a US-based non-profit organisation that provides opportunities for volunteers to take part in archaeological excavations in Spain and Italy. The Clunia dig costs \u20ac1,850 for four weeks, including three meals a day and wine, accommodation (at most two sharing), excursions, transfers and insurance. The dates for 2010 are July 1-July 30. Ryanair flies Stansted-Valladolid. Car hire from Valladolid airport with Avis (0844 581 8181) from around \u00a3264 for one week in September.Mark Piesing", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Heritage", "Short breaks", "Archaeology", "Travel"], "title": "Digging the past in Spain"},{"date": "2009-07-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An exhibition of some 130 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs charts a period in which Spanish culture flourished, despite - or perhaps partly as a result of - extreme political upheaval, from the peninsular war of 1807-14 to the Spanish civil war of 1936-39. It's a remarkable display of passion and tragedy, of deep spiritual aspiration and desperate social disillusionment that became a major influence on western culture. Goya's Disasters Of War etchings are quite possibly one of the most powerfully moving anti-war statements of all time. Each incisive victim and sky of acidic darkness speaks of the artist's deep disgust. Elsewhere, Picasso's Weeping Woman is a fragmented portrait of vulnerable beauty shattered.", "tags": ["Exhibitions", "Art and design", "Culture", "Scotland and Ireland listings", "National Gallery"], "title": "Exhibitions preview: The Discovery Of Spain, Edinburgh"},{"date": "2009-07-01T09:28:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A British man on a skydiving beginners' course in Spain fell 13,000ft to his death yesterday after apparently going into a state of shock in the air.Police said Richard Taylor, 34, fell \"like a lead weight\" after he did not open his parachute and his automatic emergency chute failed. The accident at at the Airelibre school in Ocana, central Spain, happened on Taylor's fifth jump.\"We are devastated by this tragic accident,\" said a school spokesman, David Coleman. \"He was on his fifth jump and had previously done absolutely everything right, showing great control and altitude awareness. He had been in freefall for about a minute when he curled up into a ball, probably as a result of going into shock.\"Coleman said the instructor tried to catch up with Taylor, who was on a beginners' course with four British friends, but he was falling too fast because he was curled up.\"The instructor gave hand signals telling him to open his chute, but he did not respond,\" Coleman said. \"Eventually the instructor had to open his own parachute.\"An emergency parachute should have activated but because Taylor was curled up in a ball a line got caught on his arm and it could not open properly.The mayor of Ocana, Jos\u00e9 Carlos Martinez Osteso, said police had established that neither of Taylor's parachutes opened.Houdi de la Fuente, the commercial director of Airelibre, said: \"This is incredibly sad, he was a young man who was full of life and dreams and excitement. For him to have his life cut short like this is absolutely tragic.\"Taylor is the second Briton to die at the school. Andrew Bearne, 39, from Guildford, Surrey, crash-landed after apparently blacking out on his first solo skydive last August.Three years ago a mother of four, Anna Endicott, 31, from Thornby, Gloucestershire, died when she collided with her instructor in the same part of Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "British skydiver dies in Spain parachute accident"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I felt more like Gil Grissom from CSI than Indiana Jones when I finally managed to cup my hands round Curly's smashed-in skull and lift it out of his hastily dug grave in one piece. It had taken four hours and a lot of patience, bent over in the 30C Spanish heat, to finally free the skull from the concrete-like grasp of the 1,700-year-old dirt. One slip and his bones would have crumbled to dust. Curly - named after the third Marx brother by the volunteer who discovered him - was the last of 30 skeletons discovered unexpectedly in shallow graves back stage of the largest theatre in Roman Spain at Clunia. Three hours drive north-west of Madrid and an hour from the nearest supermarket, the theatre is now the gateway from the medieval village of Pe\u00f1alba de Castro to the beautiful mosaics and massive foundations of the ruined Roman city.Thirty people had been buried in a rush, and the only clue so far as to who they were, or why they died, was a single arrow head found in one of the graves.Working on an archaeological dig is not many people's dream holiday, but I had decided to spend a week at Clunia to find out why it is growing in popularity. Clunia's sun, location and all inclusive package of accommodation, food and excursions, seemed more appealing than the bring-your-own-tent-and-food approach of a soggy dig in Britain.According to Lisa Westcott, editor of Current Archaeology, this will have been the biggest summer yet for archaeological volunteering, with more than 300 digs in the UK alone. \"Volunteering is really taking off because it is a great alternative for recession-hit Britain,\" she says. \"Volunteers who don't have to have any previous experience of archaeology can spend two weeks away for almost nothing.\"Go further afield, as I did, and it may not be so cheap but the limited numbers of archaeologists on many excavations gives volunteers the chance to be involved in every aspect of the dig. Mysteries swirl around the largely unexcavated ruins of Clunia, one of the most important cities in Roman Spain. Built by the Romans on the massive 3,360ft Alto de Castro plateau soon after they had conquered the area in 55BC, the city was given a monumental makeover in the first century AD, which included the construction of a huge, 9,000-seat theatre. By the end of the second century AD the theatre's stage and one third of the seats had been torn out to make way for a circus arena. Barely 100 years later, both the city and theatre had largely been abandoned.I arrived at the site to find Mike Elkin, the American archaeologist in charge of the volunteers, already having lunch at a long table with 30 archaeologists, Spanish students and volunteers. The vest tops at the table were distinctly tighter and the tans deeper than on Channel 4's Time Team, and the rapid fire Spanish of the archaeologists a challenge for my Spanglish. Mike gave up a high-flying financial career at Bloombergs in Madrid to pursue his first love of archaeology, which he had studied at university. He explained that each summer he brings seven volunteers to the dig, which is run by the universities of Barcelona, Valladolid and Burgos. Many - like me - have no previous experience of archaeology. I would be staying in one of two shared and rather basic flats in the local village of Pe\u00f1alba de Castro. The working day began at 7am and finished at 3pm. After that there was a big sit down lunch, followed by dinner at 9.30pm. In between the hours were our own; sometimes there were excursions to explore the region. The first day I felt a tingle of excitement when we crossed the \"PROHIBIDO EL PASO\" cordon at the entrance to the site and turned from visitors to archaeologists. And there was something magical when professor Francesc Tuest started spraying the patch of dirt we were digging with water to reveal the edges of a pit that had been filled with rubble almost 2,000 years ago. Francesc explained that archaeology was like removing the flesh of an orange while leaving the skin intact, his way of reminding us that rather than just the brute force of \"pico, pico, pico\" - the Spanish for pick axe - we had to find the edge of the pit, identify layers and watch out for artefacts.Then, a eureka moment - I saw something pale and grooved in the dirt. Bending down I realised I had found a fragment of Roman pottery. While the professionals just shrugged and threw it into the finds tray, to me it was special and deeply satisfying that I had only previously seen in a museum display case.Although there was rarely a chance to shower before lunch, there was always time for a Mahon - the regional beer. At 3pm we headed to Restaurant Los Cuatro Bolos in nearby Huerta de Rey for a three-course lunch: rustic dishes such as oreja de cardo (fried pig's ear) and never-ending glasses of tinto de verano (rough local red wine mixed with sweet tonic water), which helped both to break down barriers and turn the meals into Spanish lessons. In the afternoon it was too hot to work so we would explore the countryside by taking one of the shepherd trails lined with sunflowers that spread out from the village, or better still, by jumping into Mike's Land Rover to kick up dust along the back roads and through villages where dogs chased the wheels of passing cars.One such trip took us to the ruins of the Roman city of Tiermes. Hidden among pine forests and limestone cliffs, it looked more like the wild west than modern Spain, with houses, gateways and aqueducts that had been carved into a large limestone outcrop. One of Tiermes' aqueducts plunged us into the total darkness of an 80m underground tunnel; we stumbled along it before being thrown out into the blinking daylight and thyme-scented air of a ruined hilltop mansion.Another trip took us to a mass grave from the Spanish civil war of the 1930s. It had been discovered only three days before. The Republican flag still flew proudly over a black canopy that hid the skeletons of the 46 victims of the Nationalist death squads buried in two trenches. The local mayor was sitting on his knees as he helped to scrape the dirt from the bones, as if in an act of penance. The gold filings still shone from the bullet-holed skulls.Back at Clunia I was told, at last, that I could take my turn excavating Curly. I was even more surprised when that night I was asked by one of the archaeologists in Spanish whether I would like to come back next year, and I answered \"Si!\".ArchaeoSpain (+1 866 932 0003) is a US-based non-profit organisation that provides opportunities for volunteers to take part in archaeological excavations in Spain and Italy. The Clunia dig costs \u20ac1,850 for four weeks, including three meals a day and wine, accommodation (at most two sharing), excursions, transfers and insurance. The dates for 2010 are July 1-July 30. Ryanair flies Stansted-Valladolid. Car hire from Valladolid airport with Avis (0844 581 8181) from around \u00a3264 for one week in September.Mark Piesing", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Heritage", "Short breaks", "Archaeology", "Travel"], "title": "Digging the past in Spain"},{"date": "2009-07-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 7 August 2009The piece below about the tapas bars of Logro\u00f1o in northern Spain mentioned in passing the art collection housed in the city's Museo de La Rioja. To clarify: the museum is closed. It may reopen some time this year.An Andaluc\u00edan would say Granada, or possibly Seville. Proud, food-obsessed Basques would choose San Sebasti\u00e1n, no question. And Madrile\u00f1os, well ... they think the capital has the best of everything - from food to football.While tapas are ubiquitous in Spain, the question of who serves up the best is divisive. Granada, the spiritual home of the tapa, has a good shout, and it's also one of the few places where they are still offered free with a drink. Seville probably has the most atmospheric old bars, but not the best tapas, while San Sebastian's elaborate pintxos, as they're called in Basque, are delicious works of art. But my vote goes to Logro\u00f1o, the untouristy capital of La Rioja, for the sheer concentration of tapas bars in its medieval old town. Almost 50 are crammed into a single block about the size of four tennis courts. I counted 24 in 100 steps along Calle del Laurel, 13 in 50 paces along Traves\u00eda del Laurel. Calle San Agustin and Calle Albornoz complete the circuit with a dozen more. Hemingway treated his taste buds here during his Iberian travels, while King Juan Carlos has given them his royal seal of approval.This concentration grew from old wine shops (envas) that once sold Rioja's wine in these narrow medieval streets. The wine business has now shifted to nearby Haro, whose historic centre has a tiny tapas circuit of its own known as \"The Horseshoe\".With so many bars in so little space you might expect fierce competition, but Logro\u00f1o, on the river Ebro and a stop-off point for pilgrims en route to Santiago de Compostela, has worked out a simple solution - each bar specialises in just two or three dishes. \"There are no rivals here,\" says Lourdes Sainz, as I start a lunchtime progress along Travesia del Laurel at her brightly-coloured Bar Lorenzo, mingling with blokes on a booze-and-a-bite warm-up for a long Spanish lunch. Lorenzo majors on simply grilled chistorra (chorizo with sweet paprika and garlic) alongside succulent lamb kebabs doused in a secret sauce full of contrasting sweet and sharp notes. The recipe, Lourdes explains, came from her husband's grandmother in lieu of a more typical inheritance: \"There's no money in the will, just the sauce. That is your future.\" A brisk flow of punters testifies to its appeal. Next door, Bar Soriano specialises in setas - wild mushrooms cooked in garlicky butter then skewered with a shrimp. Opposite, La Aldea is a shellfish paradise - razor clams (navajas) cooked to sweet perfection, juicy clams (almejas) washed down with a copa of bone-dry Barbadillo. Halfway along Calle Laurel, the wood-beamed La Tasca del Pato offers white asparagus grilled with a wrap of Riojan cheese, and txangurrito - a fishcake of crab and shellfish with a rich b\u00e9chamel.The source of all this produce is the Mercado de San Blas (eabastos.com), a modernist edifice whose two floors are testament to the Riojan larder - earthy ceps foraged from wooded hills, broad beans bulging in glistening pods, hot peppers, gleaming fresh fish. The meat counters push the concept of nose-to-tail eating to extremes - I'm secretly relieved that veal snout (morro de ternera), traditionally stewed with tripe, onion, garlic and chorizo, and skinned pig's face (careta de cerdo) are both niche, home-cooked specialities I never got to try.I do, however, get to taste embuchados - coiled lamb intestines - at En Ascuas (0034 941 246 867, Calle Hermanos Moroy 22), a crisp-linened restaurant famed for meat cooked in a giant, wood-fired oven. They are paired with a parsley and garlic sauce and I tuck in happily while watching the oven flames leap behind a glass panel. Once, locals regularly cooked over outdoor barbecues of burning vine branches - a throwback I witness the next day at Bodegas Puelles (+941 334 415, bodegaspuelles.com), an organic vineyard about 30 minutes' drive from Logro\u00f1o in Abalos. The air quivers with summer heat as I wind up through rocky foothills dotted by chozos, bee-hive shaped stone storage buildings. Greeted by the owner, Jes\u00fas Puelles, we wander to the edge of a vineyard where vines sweep down into a lush valley. A pile of tindery branches towers above plates of lamb and sausages that are soon sizzling over the burning vines to provide a succulently rustic lunch on a cool patio, complemented by wines from the hillside where we'd cooked. I while away another afternoon exploring Logro\u00f1o's ancient core, sandwiched between the green spaces of the riverside Parque del Ebro and the tree-filled Paseo Del Espol\u00f3n. The main street, Calle Portales, is lined with cafes and old-fashioned shops while, in the wide Plaza Del Mercado, I crane my neck to take in the magnificent 16th-century cathedral. As well as ancient churches to please the pilgrims, Logro\u00f1o has its share of cultural succour, too. Classical art stars at the Museo de La Rioja, housed in an 18th-century palace on Plaza de San Agust\u00edn, and is sharply contrasted by the W\u00fcrth Museum, a striking contemporary art showcase that is only a few miles out of town in Agoncillo (served by free buses from Glorieta del Doctor Zub\u00eda). On my final evening, I take in a show of Italian photography at the Sala Amos Salvador before returning to the tapas trail. At Pata Negra there's more art - a mural of bucolic pigs facing a bar where staff bellow orders for plates of meltingly rich acorn-fed iberico. The streets are louder and busier, the crowd more diverse. Drawn by the sight of a huge octopus, I dive into La Universidad to wolf down paprika-smeared pulpo a la gallega (boiled Galician octopus) alongside chipirones (baby squid) while eavesdropping on some pilgrims. \"Where are you going tomorrow?\" \"I'm starting a two-day walk.\" \"Only two days?!\"I give thanks that I'm on my trail rather than theirs, and move on to Calle San Agust\u00edn. In El Soldado de Tudelilla, the guingillas (fiery green peppers) are so hot I swear the air shimmers in front of me as I quickly order some cooling Asturian cider, which the barman pours from on high while greeting new arrivals with a cheery, \"Hola, chicos!\" At Bodeguilla Los Rotos, I encounter gulas, which are delicious elver look-alikes made with white fish (real eels are too scarce) and served with creamy scrambled eggs. I mourn the eels' fate over a glass of vermouth, while plucking tiny caracolillos (sea snails) from their shells with a pin. My evening ends in Bar Sebas on Calle Albornoz where, assuming \"sheep's ear\" to be a euphemism for something scrumptious, I find myself biting into crunchy ovine cartilage. The man beside me watches with amusement as I try to clear the plate nonchalantly, then asks if I've been around many of the bars. \"A lot, but not all,\" I tell him. He nods and tells me of the local nickname for the circuit. \"We call it La Senda de los Elefantes - the Trail of the Elephants,\" he laughs, \"because of the way people walk if they've done all the bars.\" I thank him, then finish my drink and stagger into the warm summer night. \u2022 Iberia (0870 609 0500, iberia.com) flies from London to Logro\u00f1o via Madrid or Barcelona, from \u00a3231 return including tax. Hotel Husa Gran V\u00eda (00 34 941 28 78 50, hotelhusagranvia.com) has doubles from \u20ac80 per night. Further information from the Spanish Tourist Office: 020 7486 8077, spain.info/uk", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Spain holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Restaurants", "Short breaks", "Heritage", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "A tapas pilgrimage in Spain"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-12-20T23:46:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British family of a man held on terrorism charges in Spain for nearly four years is flying out to be reunited with him for Christmas after he was suddenly freed.Mohammed Mrabet Fahsi, 40, telephoned his wife, Khadija Podd, to tell her he was \"in the street\", Spanish jargon for release from prison. \"They've let me go, they've let me go!\" he told her.\"It was like a dream, it just wouldn't sink in, the news we've been waiting for four years,\" said Podd, celebrating at home in Nottingham with their children aged 11, 9 and six.Fahsi, a Moroccan-born British resident, was held under the controversial \"incommunicado\" regime after his arrest near Barcelona. His case was highlighted by an Amnesty International campaign against unfair detention in Spain. His trial for belonging to a terrorist group started in September and the verdict was being considered when the authorities released him on Friday without even notifying his lawyer. Fahsi had been jailed for more than three years without being charged.Podd and the children plan to fly out to Barcelona on Christmas Eve.Fahsi, who was in the process of moving to Nottingham, was arrested in Vilanova y la Geltr\u00fa, near Barcelona, in 2006.He was detained for almost five days incommunicado. Under Spanish law terrorist suspects can be held for up to 13 days without contacting their family, lawyer or doctor. The Spanish prosecution accused him of indoctrinating another man who was later involved in a bomb attack on Italian troops in Iraq.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "Nottingham"], "title": "British terror suspect held in Spain released without charge"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-12-20T23:46:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British family of a man held on terrorism charges in Spain for nearly four years is flying out to be reunited with him for Christmas after he was suddenly freed.Mohammed Mrabet Fahsi, 40, telephoned his wife, Khadija Podd, to tell her he was \"in the street\", Spanish jargon for release from prison. \"They've let me go, they've let me go!\" he told her.\"It was like a dream, it just wouldn't sink in, the news we've been waiting for four years,\" said Podd, celebrating at home in Nottingham with their children aged 11, 9 and six.Fahsi, a Moroccan-born British resident, was held under the controversial \"incommunicado\" regime after his arrest near Barcelona. His case was highlighted by an Amnesty International campaign against unfair detention in Spain. His trial for belonging to a terrorist group started in September and the verdict was being considered when the authorities released him on Friday without even notifying his lawyer. Fahsi had been jailed for more than three years without being charged.Podd and the children plan to fly out to Barcelona on Christmas Eve.Fahsi, who was in the process of moving to Nottingham, was arrested in Vilanova y la Geltr\u00fa, near Barcelona, in 2006.He was detained for almost five days incommunicado. Under Spanish law terrorist suspects can be held for up to 13 days without contacting their family, lawyer or doctor. The Spanish prosecution accused him of indoctrinating another man who was later involved in a bomb attack on Italian troops in Iraq.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "Nottingham"], "title": "British terror suspect held in Spain released without charge"},{"date": "2009-12-09T14:24:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Worries about corporate and sovereign debt continued to overshadow world markets as Spain became the latest country to come under the spotlight and there was more evidence of Dubai's troubles.A day after Greece's credit rating was cut amid rising concern about the state of its finances, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on Spain to negative and warned that the country faced a risk of a debt downgrade in two years if the government did not take tough action. Spanish bank shares fell on the news adding to existing market nervousness about the ability of Greece to pay its debts.As Greek financial markets took a pounding Greece's prime minister George Papandreou vowed to do whatever it took to check the country's huge deficit. \"We must close the credibility gap to survive as a sovereign and cohesive nation,\" he told a televised cabinet meeting.In Dubai, Nakheel, the property developer behind the palm-shaped islands that have come to symbolise the country's excess, reported a 13.43bn dirham (\u00a32.25bn) loss for the first half of the year. Dubai markets fell sharply for the third successive day on the news.The business, part of Dubai World, which is attempting to restructure $26bn (\u00a315.9bn) of debt, wrote down the value of its assets during the first half, from 155.5bn dirhams to 147bn dirhams, reflecting the deep fall in property values over the past year. Property prices have plunged by about 50% since the global economy started to slip into recession.The company said it would pare back further capital expenditure by scaling down or mothballing some developments that had been planned for after 2012. It said the impairment charge \"relates to the writedown in the value of land to current fair market levels and the writedown of certain properties under construction relating to projects that have been delayed or scaled back\".The cost of insuring Dubai's debt against restructuring or default rose again as investors grew steadily more anxious about the ability of Dubai World to cope with its debts.The state-owned company stunned world markets two weeks ago when it said it would seek a six-month standstill on debt repayments, while it attempted to restructure the business. The government later prompted fury by refusing to stand behind the company and assume responsibility for the debts, despite its being a state-owned entity.Dubai's finance chief on Tuesday admitted that it would now probably need more than six months.Credit rating agency Moody's this week downgraded six Dubai government-related companies because of the perceived lack of support from the state.Investors, including British banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, are still assessing potential losses. As well as the property assets, Dubai World owns the former P&O \u2013 part of a wider ports business.The Dubai financial market's benchmark index fell by 6%, with the declines of the past three days wiping out a year's worth of gains. One of the biggest fallers was Emaar Properties, the company behind the world's tallest tower, which is yet to be completed, and in which the government holds a roughly one-third stake. The bourse in Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich state and the home of the United Arab Emirates federal government, fell by over 2.7%.Dubai World is shouldering total debts of about $60bn (\u00a336.9bn), but has indicated that it intends to ringfence the profitable parts of the conglomerate, including the ports business and its private equity arm, Istithmar World.In a sign that Dubai World may struggle to hold on to its prized assets, Istithmar lost its W Hotel in Manhattan in a foreclosure auction for $2m (\u00a31.23m) on Tuesday, after buying the property for $282m (\u00a3173.6m) in 2006.Analysts at Barclays Capital have warned that Dubai Holding, an investment company directly controlled by Dubai's ruler could be \"next in line\" with credit problems.", "tags": ["Dubai World", "Dubai", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Market jitters as Spain joins Dubai on danger list"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-12-20T23:46:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British family of a man held on terrorism charges in Spain for nearly four years is flying out to be reunited with him for Christmas after he was suddenly freed.Mohammed Mrabet Fahsi, 40, telephoned his wife, Khadija Podd, to tell her he was \"in the street\", Spanish jargon for release from prison. \"They've let me go, they've let me go!\" he told her.\"It was like a dream, it just wouldn't sink in, the news we've been waiting for four years,\" said Podd, celebrating at home in Nottingham with their children aged 11, 9 and six.Fahsi, a Moroccan-born British resident, was held under the controversial \"incommunicado\" regime after his arrest near Barcelona. His case was highlighted by an Amnesty International campaign against unfair detention in Spain. His trial for belonging to a terrorist group started in September and the verdict was being considered when the authorities released him on Friday without even notifying his lawyer. Fahsi had been jailed for more than three years without being charged.Podd and the children plan to fly out to Barcelona on Christmas Eve.Fahsi, who was in the process of moving to Nottingham, was arrested in Vilanova y la Geltr\u00fa, near Barcelona, in 2006.He was detained for almost five days incommunicado. Under Spanish law terrorist suspects can be held for up to 13 days without contacting their family, lawyer or doctor. The Spanish prosecution accused him of indoctrinating another man who was later involved in a bomb attack on Italian troops in Iraq.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "Nottingham"], "title": "British terror suspect held in Spain released without charge"},{"date": "2009-12-09T14:24:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Worries about corporate and sovereign debt continued to overshadow world markets as Spain became the latest country to come under the spotlight and there was more evidence of Dubai's troubles.A day after Greece's credit rating was cut amid rising concern about the state of its finances, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on Spain to negative and warned that the country faced a risk of a debt downgrade in two years if the government did not take tough action. Spanish bank shares fell on the news adding to existing market nervousness about the ability of Greece to pay its debts.As Greek financial markets took a pounding Greece's prime minister George Papandreou vowed to do whatever it took to check the country's huge deficit. \"We must close the credibility gap to survive as a sovereign and cohesive nation,\" he told a televised cabinet meeting.In Dubai, Nakheel, the property developer behind the palm-shaped islands that have come to symbolise the country's excess, reported a 13.43bn dirham (\u00a32.25bn) loss for the first half of the year. Dubai markets fell sharply for the third successive day on the news.The business, part of Dubai World, which is attempting to restructure $26bn (\u00a315.9bn) of debt, wrote down the value of its assets during the first half, from 155.5bn dirhams to 147bn dirhams, reflecting the deep fall in property values over the past year. Property prices have plunged by about 50% since the global economy started to slip into recession.The company said it would pare back further capital expenditure by scaling down or mothballing some developments that had been planned for after 2012. It said the impairment charge \"relates to the writedown in the value of land to current fair market levels and the writedown of certain properties under construction relating to projects that have been delayed or scaled back\".The cost of insuring Dubai's debt against restructuring or default rose again as investors grew steadily more anxious about the ability of Dubai World to cope with its debts.The state-owned company stunned world markets two weeks ago when it said it would seek a six-month standstill on debt repayments, while it attempted to restructure the business. The government later prompted fury by refusing to stand behind the company and assume responsibility for the debts, despite its being a state-owned entity.Dubai's finance chief on Tuesday admitted that it would now probably need more than six months.Credit rating agency Moody's this week downgraded six Dubai government-related companies because of the perceived lack of support from the state.Investors, including British banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, are still assessing potential losses. As well as the property assets, Dubai World owns the former P&O \u2013 part of a wider ports business.The Dubai financial market's benchmark index fell by 6%, with the declines of the past three days wiping out a year's worth of gains. One of the biggest fallers was Emaar Properties, the company behind the world's tallest tower, which is yet to be completed, and in which the government holds a roughly one-third stake. The bourse in Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich state and the home of the United Arab Emirates federal government, fell by over 2.7%.Dubai World is shouldering total debts of about $60bn (\u00a336.9bn), but has indicated that it intends to ringfence the profitable parts of the conglomerate, including the ports business and its private equity arm, Istithmar World.In a sign that Dubai World may struggle to hold on to its prized assets, Istithmar lost its W Hotel in Manhattan in a foreclosure auction for $2m (\u00a31.23m) on Tuesday, after buying the property for $282m (\u00a3173.6m) in 2006.Analysts at Barclays Capital have warned that Dubai Holding, an investment company directly controlled by Dubai's ruler could be \"next in line\" with credit problems.", "tags": ["Dubai World", "Dubai", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Market jitters as Spain joins Dubai on danger list"},{"date": "2009-12-09T15:04:25Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Dubai, Greece and now Spain. Leading shares have moved into negative territory as Standard & Poor's cut it rating outlook on Spain from stable to negative.So having survived the pre-budget report pretty much unscathed, the FTSE 100 is now down 35.70 points to 5187.43. A opening dip on Wall Street is not helping sentiment.Back to Spain for a moment. Earlier today, before the S&P move, analysts at Credit Suisse issued a note looking at European countries and concluded:To us domestic Spain looks most vulnerable. Unlike in Greece, the price/book relative of domestic Spain is close to an all-time high (2% premium to Europe compared to a normal discount of 20%). Furthermore, the real effective exchange rate is 10% overvalued (i.e. domestic prices are 10% too high, relative to those in Europe, and with wage growth of 4% there has been no adjustment yet - so a 10% decline in price and wages is still needed relative to that of core Europe).Productivity growth has been zero for 20 years, so Spain can't innovate its way out of the crisis. Housing is still 12% overvalued, according to the IMF, (although on a house price to wage ratio of 6.2 we suspect housing is much more overvalued) and at peak 20% of GDP was accounted for by the housing sector and construction. Spain is about 20% overleveraged, looking at private sector debt as a proportion of GDP versus GDP per capita. And its aggregate leverage (private and government) is higher than that of Greece. S&P meanwhile warned that Spain faced a deeper deterioration in public finances and a longer period of weakness than it had expected in January:In our opinion, reducing Spain's sizable fiscal and economic imbalances requires strong policy actions which have not yet materialised.So with Spanish banks lower, there is some uncertainty among their UK counterparts. Royal Bank of Scotland is down 0.13p at 30.32p while Lloyds Banking Group is up 0.27p at 54.04p, off its earlier highs.", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group"], "title": "FTSE 100 dips lower after S&P cautions on Spain"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-12-20T23:46:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British family of a man held on terrorism charges in Spain for nearly four years is flying out to be reunited with him for Christmas after he was suddenly freed.Mohammed Mrabet Fahsi, 40, telephoned his wife, Khadija Podd, to tell her he was \"in the street\", Spanish jargon for release from prison. \"They've let me go, they've let me go!\" he told her.\"It was like a dream, it just wouldn't sink in, the news we've been waiting for four years,\" said Podd, celebrating at home in Nottingham with their children aged 11, 9 and six.Fahsi, a Moroccan-born British resident, was held under the controversial \"incommunicado\" regime after his arrest near Barcelona. His case was highlighted by an Amnesty International campaign against unfair detention in Spain. His trial for belonging to a terrorist group started in September and the verdict was being considered when the authorities released him on Friday without even notifying his lawyer. Fahsi had been jailed for more than three years without being charged.Podd and the children plan to fly out to Barcelona on Christmas Eve.Fahsi, who was in the process of moving to Nottingham, was arrested in Vilanova y la Geltr\u00fa, near Barcelona, in 2006.He was detained for almost five days incommunicado. Under Spanish law terrorist suspects can be held for up to 13 days without contacting their family, lawyer or doctor. The Spanish prosecution accused him of indoctrinating another man who was later involved in a bomb attack on Italian troops in Iraq.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "Nottingham"], "title": "British terror suspect held in Spain released without charge"},{"date": "2009-12-09T14:24:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Worries about corporate and sovereign debt continued to overshadow world markets as Spain became the latest country to come under the spotlight and there was more evidence of Dubai's troubles.A day after Greece's credit rating was cut amid rising concern about the state of its finances, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on Spain to negative and warned that the country faced a risk of a debt downgrade in two years if the government did not take tough action. Spanish bank shares fell on the news adding to existing market nervousness about the ability of Greece to pay its debts.As Greek financial markets took a pounding Greece's prime minister George Papandreou vowed to do whatever it took to check the country's huge deficit. \"We must close the credibility gap to survive as a sovereign and cohesive nation,\" he told a televised cabinet meeting.In Dubai, Nakheel, the property developer behind the palm-shaped islands that have come to symbolise the country's excess, reported a 13.43bn dirham (\u00a32.25bn) loss for the first half of the year. Dubai markets fell sharply for the third successive day on the news.The business, part of Dubai World, which is attempting to restructure $26bn (\u00a315.9bn) of debt, wrote down the value of its assets during the first half, from 155.5bn dirhams to 147bn dirhams, reflecting the deep fall in property values over the past year. Property prices have plunged by about 50% since the global economy started to slip into recession.The company said it would pare back further capital expenditure by scaling down or mothballing some developments that had been planned for after 2012. It said the impairment charge \"relates to the writedown in the value of land to current fair market levels and the writedown of certain properties under construction relating to projects that have been delayed or scaled back\".The cost of insuring Dubai's debt against restructuring or default rose again as investors grew steadily more anxious about the ability of Dubai World to cope with its debts.The state-owned company stunned world markets two weeks ago when it said it would seek a six-month standstill on debt repayments, while it attempted to restructure the business. The government later prompted fury by refusing to stand behind the company and assume responsibility for the debts, despite its being a state-owned entity.Dubai's finance chief on Tuesday admitted that it would now probably need more than six months.Credit rating agency Moody's this week downgraded six Dubai government-related companies because of the perceived lack of support from the state.Investors, including British banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, are still assessing potential losses. As well as the property assets, Dubai World owns the former P&O \u2013 part of a wider ports business.The Dubai financial market's benchmark index fell by 6%, with the declines of the past three days wiping out a year's worth of gains. One of the biggest fallers was Emaar Properties, the company behind the world's tallest tower, which is yet to be completed, and in which the government holds a roughly one-third stake. The bourse in Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich state and the home of the United Arab Emirates federal government, fell by over 2.7%.Dubai World is shouldering total debts of about $60bn (\u00a336.9bn), but has indicated that it intends to ringfence the profitable parts of the conglomerate, including the ports business and its private equity arm, Istithmar World.In a sign that Dubai World may struggle to hold on to its prized assets, Istithmar lost its W Hotel in Manhattan in a foreclosure auction for $2m (\u00a31.23m) on Tuesday, after buying the property for $282m (\u00a3173.6m) in 2006.Analysts at Barclays Capital have warned that Dubai Holding, an investment company directly controlled by Dubai's ruler could be \"next in line\" with credit problems.", "tags": ["Dubai World", "Dubai", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Market jitters as Spain joins Dubai on danger list"},{"date": "2009-12-09T15:04:25Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Dubai, Greece and now Spain. Leading shares have moved into negative territory as Standard & Poor's cut it rating outlook on Spain from stable to negative.So having survived the pre-budget report pretty much unscathed, the FTSE 100 is now down 35.70 points to 5187.43. A opening dip on Wall Street is not helping sentiment.Back to Spain for a moment. Earlier today, before the S&P move, analysts at Credit Suisse issued a note looking at European countries and concluded:To us domestic Spain looks most vulnerable. Unlike in Greece, the price/book relative of domestic Spain is close to an all-time high (2% premium to Europe compared to a normal discount of 20%). Furthermore, the real effective exchange rate is 10% overvalued (i.e. domestic prices are 10% too high, relative to those in Europe, and with wage growth of 4% there has been no adjustment yet - so a 10% decline in price and wages is still needed relative to that of core Europe).Productivity growth has been zero for 20 years, so Spain can't innovate its way out of the crisis. Housing is still 12% overvalued, according to the IMF, (although on a house price to wage ratio of 6.2 we suspect housing is much more overvalued) and at peak 20% of GDP was accounted for by the housing sector and construction. Spain is about 20% overleveraged, looking at private sector debt as a proportion of GDP versus GDP per capita. And its aggregate leverage (private and government) is higher than that of Greece. S&P meanwhile warned that Spain faced a deeper deterioration in public finances and a longer period of weakness than it had expected in January:In our opinion, reducing Spain's sizable fiscal and economic imbalances requires strong policy actions which have not yet materialised.So with Spanish banks lower, there is some uncertainty among their UK counterparts. Royal Bank of Scotland is down 0.13p at 30.32p while Lloyds Banking Group is up 0.27p at 54.04p, off its earlier highs.", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group"], "title": "FTSE 100 dips lower after S&P cautions on Spain"},{"date": "2009-10-05T22:58:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A British expatriate shot his wife before turning the gun on himself at their luxury home in Spain in what police yesterday said was a murder-suicide.Police named the couple as David and Heather Rouse, who lived in San Fulgencio near Alicante on the Costa Blanca. He was in his 70s and his wife in her 50s. A neighbour alerted the police at about 11.30pm on Sunday after hearing a strange noise, the Alicante civil guard said.\"It seems the main reason was the husband had some kind of terminal cancer and wanted to finish the story,\" a police spokesman said.Friends of the couple said doctors had recently diagnosed Rouse with terminal cancer. He had also suffered two strokes.Officers had found medical notes in the house that revealed his illness. Rouse left water and food for the couple's pet dog and cat, placed his identification on a table and left the front door open before taking his own life, according to police.A police source said: \"Mr Rouse appears to have planned the crime meticulously. He left documents out identifying himself and left food and water for the pets. The officers found both bodies in the bedroom. Mrs Rouse had been shot in the head with a shotgun as she slept. Mr Rouse had then used a long stick to fire the trigger of the shotgun and kill himself. Everything points to a murder-suicide although no note was found.\"Friends expressed bafflement at the couple's death as they had only recently booked a holiday cruise and Rouse had been due to pick up his sister from the airport yesterday. His sister arrived to be met by officers who broke the news to her.The couple moved into their five-bedroom villa near the town of San Fulgencio, south-east of Alicante, eight years ago. The house, set in three-quarters of an acre of grounds lined with palm trees is worth about \u00a3800,000. Rouse, reportedly a millionaire, recently put the home on the market.A post-mortem was carried out yesterday and the civil guard is investigating.\"It is a terrible tragedy that has shaken up the town,\" said Trinidad Martinez, the mayor of San Fulgencio. \"They were a very well-liked couple who were popular with neighbours.\"She added: \"There was never any suggestion of any kind of domestic abuse. The husband had suffered from a series of strokes and may have been suffering from depression. However, he had seemed in better health recently. His sister arrived at the airport and was horrified when she was told the news by officers from the civil guard. Our thoughts are with both families at this time.\"San Fulgencio is home to many expats, particularly Britons, who make up almost half of its population of 8,000. Last year a British expat, Mark Lewis, who speaks only a smattering of Spanish, took over as mayor after the previous mayor, deputy mayor and four senior councillors were arrested on charges of corruption.", "tags": ["UK news", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Expat in Spain shoots wife before turning gun on himself"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "You may not be aware of it, but you probably spend a lot of time in Babia. Most people do, even though they may not know it really exists. You see Babia is a remote corner of the province of Le\u00f3n in northern Spain. But in Spain to be \"in Babia\" means to be lost in thought, not quite all there, or even not where you're supposed to be. Leading Spanish writer Julio Llamazares, who was born in the province, puts it thus: \"Being in Babia means having your mind in one place and your body in another.\"Thinking it might not be a bad idea to get my mind and body in the same place for once, I set off for Babia to find out more about where the saying comes from. Setting off from the city of Le\u00f3n, I tootled along the old road that leads north-west out of the city. After an hour or so \u2013 by which time mine was the only vehicle on the road \u2013 I arrived in the Luna valley, heralded by a huge reservoir snaking between the hills. The road wiggled around the contours of the hillside, past a handful of tiny hamlets, then the countryside suddenly opened up and I entered a broad, lush valley of emerald green meadows encircled by snow-capped mountains and I was at last in Babia.It felt like crossing an invisible frontier into another world. I stopped the car and gazed across the fields, which sloped up the hillside. Higher up, on both sides a wall of carboniferous limestone was crowned by craggy peaks at more than 2,000m. The only sounds came from the water trickling down the mountains and the jingling of cow bells.I turned off the main road and drove down a winding lane to Riolago de Babia, one of a couple of dozen villages scattered across the region. Sitting on a bench in a little square in front of the 16th-century Palacio de los Qui\u00f1ones, which was encased in scaffolding, I got talking to a dapper man who introduced himself as Fernando Geijo Rodriguez. \"It's going to be a visitor centre,\" he said.The palace had fallen into disrepair in the 20th century, and was virtually a ruin by the Seventies, when a Madrid developer tried to get hold of it in order to strip out the more valuable architectural features for use elsewhere. It was saved from this fate by none other than my interlocutor, Se\u00f1or Rodr\u00edguez, who then spent 20 years and a lot of money restoring it before the regional government took charge of the project.\"Fancy a beer?\" he asked. I nodded and he nipped into his house on the other side of the square. As he was opening the bottles, another villager ambled up to join us on the bench. \"This is my friend Amilcar,\" Fernando said. \"Like the Carthaginian general.\"\"We're all in Babia here,\" said Amilcar, laughing. \"Do you know where the expression comes from?\" Fernando asked me. \"That's what I want to find out,\" I replied, swigging my beer.\"Well, back in the Middle Ages, when Le\u00f3n was a kingdom, the royal family lived in their palace in the city of Le\u00f3n, but they used to come to Babia to hunt and fish. And when people requested an audience with the king, the chamberlain used to say he was in Babia, and that would be that.\"A group of hikers had arrived in the square, and were listening to Fernando. \"So is it a way of saying someone is incomunicado, like saying they're in a meeting?\" one of them asked.\"That's right,\" said Fernando, \"but there's another meaning, too. When the shepherds from Babia were taking their flocks south to Extremadura to escape the harsh winters here, they would sit around the campfire and think about their wives and girlfriends back home.\"\"And if one was totally lost to the world,\" Amilcar chipped in, \"the others would say, 'Wake up man \u2013 you're in Babia.'\"\"So nowadays,\" Fernando added, \"if someone is daydreaming or has their head in the clouds, people say they're in Babia. And it can also mean just to be happy where you are, with what you're doing, like we are now.\"Next, I drove to Torre de Babia, a village in the foothills of the Cantabrian mountains with a couple of dozen inhabitants, to see its 17th-century church. A man painting his gate pointed me in the right direction and told me his name was Manolo Cuenllas. \"I'm 83, and have always lived here. My wife is from Robledo, the next village. In those days, you had to find a girlfriend nearby.\"I pushed on up into the mountains, heading for Torrestio, which is one of the highest and most isolated villages in the area, and often cut off by snow in the winter for weeks on end. Paths dating from Roman times lead from the village up to mountain passes and over into the region of Asturias.As I wandered through the village I came across several h\u00f3rreos, rectangular wooden granaries on stone stilts that are a typical architectural feature of Asturias, but also pop up in Babia. As in the other villages I had visited, I had only been in Torrestio for a few minutes before someone started talking to me. This time it was Marina, an elderly lady who told me she spends six months a year here in Babia, but goes to Oviedo, the capital of Asturias, for the winter months. \"You may think this place is remote, but at least you can drive up here now,\" she said. \"Before the road was built, we had to walk.\"Bar La Farrapona in the centre of Torrestio looked unpromising from the outside, but inside it was surprisingly lively, packed with a mix of card-playing old locals, mountaineers and cyclists. Although fewer than 20 people live in the village all year round, active tourism has revived the fortunes of the hamlet, and a couple of casas rurales (holiday cottages) now provide inexpensive accommodation for the new wave of visitors.I was staying in an even tinier hamlet, Quejo. El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia is an old farmhouse that has been turned into a stylish hotel by Gerardo Ardura and Marta Soto, who gave up careers in tourism in the city of Le\u00f3n a decade ago to pursue their dream of creating a rural idyll.With lots of nooks and crannies both inside and out for sitting in and reading, and the river Sil gushing down the hillside in front of the house, it is a lovely place to stay, irrespective of how active or lazy you want to be. Gerardo is an excellent chef, cooking elegant dinners using as much local produce as possible. Although not a lot of fruit grows at this altitude, Gerardo used the plums from their garden to make a delicious sauce to serve with pork sirloin, and chestnuts to make a cake.Marta and I walked up to La Cueta, a village about a mile up the valley, where the road peters out. It now has a population of nine, after years of being totally uninhabited. Again, it has rural tourism to thank for this renaissance, with a bar and a couple of places to stay having opened over the past few years. You can walk to the source of the river Sil from the village, as well as to glacial lakes, and the Somiedo nature reserve is on the other side of the mountains in Asturias.We went into the Picos Blancos bar for a beer. Run by Estrella Mor\u00e1n, the bar is the focal point of the village and also has a restaurant and rooms to let. The old stone structure provides a home for four generations of her family, all represented in the bar that evening, from her 87-year-old mother, Regina, to her grandson Mois\u00e9s, a boisterous toddler who is the only child in La Cueta.Regina was dipping frisuelos \u2013 delicious sugary fritters \u2013 into a cup of thick hot chocolate, while Mois\u00e9s ran amok around our legs. Hikers tramped in and slumped on to the wooden benches. Everyone looked happy; everyone was in Babia.Iberia (0870 609 0500; iberia.com) flies to Le\u00f3n from \u00a3239 return. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Asturias (Oviedo) from \u00a352 return. Car hire with Avis (avis.co.uk) costs \u00a3100 for three days. Doubles at El Rinc\u00f3n de Babia (00 34 987 488292; elrincondebabia.com) cost from \u20ac56 B&B. Duende Travel (0870 710 6666; duendetravel.com) has a week's walking trip to Babia and Somiedo from \u00a31,495 including all meals, but not flights.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Secret spain: lost in translation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T23:05:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What do you usually get in the way of freebies on holiday? A welcome cocktail hour maybe? A vanity kit? A certificate?How about an apartment in a whitewashed Andalucian villa, where you could sit on your own terrace at night, sipping a (free) beer and tuning in to the roar of the ocean, just visible across the street.Once a hippy enclave, the beautiful beach town of Ca\u00f1os de Meca has, like much of the Costa de la Luz, escaped the developments of the Costa del Sol further east, and retained its counter-cultural spirit. In summer, hedonistic Spaniards are drawn by the beach parties and Ohju, a nightclub famous throughout the country, but at heart, Ca\u00f1os remains a surf bum town, a pretty place to drift along for a while.Many tourists come here with a campervan or a tent to enjoy the chilled out lifestyle but, as I found last week, it is possible to save on even those costs and live there for absolutely nothing, thanks to a scheme called Workaway.Workaway arranges free volunteer placements for travellers on farms, small tourism businesses and private homes all over the world, for periods of three weeks up to a couple of months. In return for four to five hours of work a day, you get food and board, and an immediate in to local life.Riffling through the Workaway website filled my head with giddy dreams. I could become an expert sea-kayaker while gardening at a remote eco lodge in Norway. A winemaker on a Douro vineyard. A conservationist in Madagascar.But Dave Burton, Workaway's British creator, said he had the perfect place for a short placement. \"Simone is German and lives with her two lovely girls [Faye, 11, and San, 9], she has been a host for a couple of years and had many Workawayers passing through. She needs help in the garden, with the kids and other jobs.\"Collecting me from a bus stop in a valley below the hilltop town of Vejer de la Frontera, Simone filled the journey with her life story, how she'd arrived in Ca\u00f1os on a whim as a traveller in her early 20s, built Casa de Meca, a tourist apartment villa, and had a family. Now she was contemplating taking the kids back to Germany, believing the serious Spanish education system was starving their creative development.Her home is separated from the apartments by a garden, and inside was cluttered with the messy ephemera of family life \u2013 dishes stacked high in the sink, abandoned glasses, toys and knick-knacks across every surface. I could see an extra pair of hands would be useful.\"You haven't had dinner? Help yourself to some bread and a bit of cheese from the fridge,\" said Simone, who urges Workaways to help themselves to whatever they like, anytime. After this we drank a bottle of red wine in the moonlight. Being flexible and open-minded is essential to making the Workaway experience a success, explained Simone.\"I email volunteers questions in advance to see whether they will fit in,\" she says. \"Then I try to find jobs for them that make the most of their strengths. One girl came to stay, she was nice, but so slow. It took her two hours to wash up. So I said, what do you like to do? She painted a bit, so I asked her to draw something for the kids. It was brilliant! So I said, forget the paper.\" Now a huge painting of a reclining Buddha covers a kitchen wall, and almost every room in the house is decorated in her rag-roll effect.Simone was equally happy with the manual work of her current Workaway, Gage, a graduate from Colorado, who I was dispatched to meet so the family could have quiet time together. He had his own small building at the end of the garden, with a bathroom, desk and double bed where Workaways usually stayed, though in winter when the tourist apartments were available, they stayed in them instead.Alongside roofing, fencing and gardening, Gage frequently minded the girls, including for three days while Simone went to Germany to research potential schools. Quite a big responsibilty for someone who'd only been there for three weeks, and one I got the impression he wasn't entirely comfortable with. It also sounded like he worked more than five hours a day. But the kids were great, he could borrow the car, had time to study, and was spending weekends travelling in Spain, visiting Seville and Madrid. \"Whenever I get out onto the beach,\" he said, \"I remember why I'm here.\"Constant negotiation over shift lengths, rewards and duties are obviously necessary for the relationship to work, and there's a chance Workaways could be taken advantage of if ground rules aren't set and gripes voiced. Whether Workaways feel they're getting a good deal depends on their expectations and their perceived value of the work. On one hand, some of the projects, such as monitoring elephants in Sri Lanka, would cost thousands through a gap year operator; on the other, hotels often pay live-in staff a wage for similar duties to Workaway chores.I certainly felt I was getting a good deal the next day, when after cleaning the kitchen, I spent all day exploring Ca\u00f1os de Meca. Bright flowers poured from hidden gardens over white-washed walls, only cats prowled the pavements, and the roads were deserted but for the odd surfer pedalling past on a bike, knotty hair trailing in the wind.I bodysurfed warm green sea crests, watching surfers zip across the white ruffles, then sat under a raffia umbrella in a chiringuito with a beer \u2013 my sole purchase of the day. This definitely felt like a holiday, and in one of the most beautiful parts of the Spanish coast.Around 4pm \u2013 siesta time on most holidays \u2013 my shift started. I'd had no work-dread feelings. After nearly a decade sat in front of a computer screen, washing up, cleaning apartments, making beds, laundry and playing games with the kids didn't seem much of a chore. I usually do these things to unwind after work.Not everyone loves kids, but for me, hanging out with Faye and San was a pleasure. They were sweet, bright and welcoming, happy to ask questions and practise their English. We played badminton, Faye told me about school and her best friend, and San showed me her pet beetle in his polystyrene box. The endless rounds of Guess Who did wear a little thin but as I'd brought the game to ingratiate myself, I had to swallow the yawns and ask \"does he wear glasses?\" (or, when I learnt the Spanish, \"gafas\"), one more time.A friend of mine came to stay too, which meant we shared the work, and also the fun. I'm sure if I'd been there longer I would have met more locals, but it was helpful to have a mate to visit the local bar with.One night we borrowed the car to explore Vejer de la Frontera's white Moorish alleys. Around every corner lay perfect scenes; mosaic-tiled courtyards full of flowerpots, a cavernous flamenco hall, the beautiful 14th-century church of Divino Salvador, tiny tapas joints and El Telar de Vejer, a craft workshop where an old woman with bright blue hair weaved rainbow bedspreads on a loom.One day I hired a surfboard in El Palmar, an even more gorgeous and laid back beach town then Ca\u00f1os. We visited Barbate, a slightly tatty town with a nice beach. \"It is a town that is built on drug dealing and tuna fishing,\" chattered Simone as she drove us over the dry hills, Goan trance blaring from the stereo. \"The hash comes in there from Morocco.\" Illegal immigrants come across the water too, she said. \"You can be put in prison for that,\" piped up Faye from the back, but Simone just shrugged.When mum wanted a lie in, getting up in the dark to wake Faye and San for school, cook scrambled eggs, make their lunch, break up a fight and walk them down the road, was tough, but flexible shifts meant we could go back to bed afterwards. And Simone was an inspiring character, a real free spirit. Our time with the family was in some ways more rewarding than our time off. From them we learned about the area, Spanish and expat life and picked up smatterings of the language.But what I valued most was the healthy outdoor life; eating, drinking and spending less, and swimming in the sea before breakfast. This wasn't really work, it was simply living differently somewhere else, and living better, a much richer experience than a normal holiday.Near the end of the stay I wanted to do something special that the girls would remember. Simone's face had a slight look of horror when she came home to find us, not cleaning the apartments as instructed, but colouring in decorations and blowing up balloons. After a swift diversion to sweep and make beds, we set to work sourcing mosquito nets, lanterns, floating candles and even an old disco ball we found under a pile of rugs in the summerhouse, to create a fairy wonderland beneath a tree. The fairy party idea wasn't greeted with quite the enthusiasm we'd hoped; Faye tentatively helped hang balloons but just watched us make wings, and San wouldn't even come out of her room to see the wonderland. Perhaps the party was more for our own benefit than anyone else's. But Simone cooked a feast and invited local friends and the apartment guests round, and as the bonfire began to crackle in the fading daylight, San emerged in a pretty fairy dress, magic wand in hand. In the end it was a fantastic party. The kids danced round the fire and we ate and drank Cava and talked until 4am.As we packed up to leave, Simone hugged us goodbye. \"It is so great to have all these different people come, so great for the kids,\" and she thanked us for bringing \"creativity and positive energy\" into the family. During our stay, we had spent very little money and earned nothing, but this reward, the gratitude for making a small difference and that we had made new friends and lived a real, local life meant we went home richer.\u2022 This article was amended on 19 October 2009. The original gave the Spanish word for eyeglasses as brilles. This has been corrected.\u2022 Workaway costs \u20ac18pp, or \u20ac24 for a couple/two friends for two years, enabling you browse hosts for free on the website and arrange placements. To stay with Simone contact her directly . All meals and accommodation are included, plus occasional use of a car. Accommodation at Casa Meca (0034 639 613 402) costs from \u20ac290 per week for a two-bedroom apartment, from \u20ac350 sleeping four, open year round. Monarch (08719 405040) offers year-round flights to Malaga from Birmingham, Gatwick, Luton and Manchester and to Gibraltar from Luton and Manchester from \u00a344.50 rtn inc taxes. Extra-legroom seats are available for \u00a317.50pp each way.", "tags": ["Working holidays", "Spain holidays", "Budget travel", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Surfing holidays"], "title": "Spain for free | a working holiday"},{"date": "2009-12-20T23:46:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British family of a man held on terrorism charges in Spain for nearly four years is flying out to be reunited with him for Christmas after he was suddenly freed.Mohammed Mrabet Fahsi, 40, telephoned his wife, Khadija Podd, to tell her he was \"in the street\", Spanish jargon for release from prison. \"They've let me go, they've let me go!\" he told her.\"It was like a dream, it just wouldn't sink in, the news we've been waiting for four years,\" said Podd, celebrating at home in Nottingham with their children aged 11, 9 and six.Fahsi, a Moroccan-born British resident, was held under the controversial \"incommunicado\" regime after his arrest near Barcelona. His case was highlighted by an Amnesty International campaign against unfair detention in Spain. His trial for belonging to a terrorist group started in September and the verdict was being considered when the authorities released him on Friday without even notifying his lawyer. Fahsi had been jailed for more than three years without being charged.Podd and the children plan to fly out to Barcelona on Christmas Eve.Fahsi, who was in the process of moving to Nottingham, was arrested in Vilanova y la Geltr\u00fa, near Barcelona, in 2006.He was detained for almost five days incommunicado. Under Spanish law terrorist suspects can be held for up to 13 days without contacting their family, lawyer or doctor. The Spanish prosecution accused him of indoctrinating another man who was later involved in a bomb attack on Italian troops in Iraq.", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "Nottingham"], "title": "British terror suspect held in Spain released without charge"},{"date": "2009-12-09T14:24:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Worries about corporate and sovereign debt continued to overshadow world markets as Spain became the latest country to come under the spotlight and there was more evidence of Dubai's troubles.A day after Greece's credit rating was cut amid rising concern about the state of its finances, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's revised its outlook on Spain to negative and warned that the country faced a risk of a debt downgrade in two years if the government did not take tough action. Spanish bank shares fell on the news adding to existing market nervousness about the ability of Greece to pay its debts.As Greek financial markets took a pounding Greece's prime minister George Papandreou vowed to do whatever it took to check the country's huge deficit. \"We must close the credibility gap to survive as a sovereign and cohesive nation,\" he told a televised cabinet meeting.In Dubai, Nakheel, the property developer behind the palm-shaped islands that have come to symbolise the country's excess, reported a 13.43bn dirham (\u00a32.25bn) loss for the first half of the year. Dubai markets fell sharply for the third successive day on the news.The business, part of Dubai World, which is attempting to restructure $26bn (\u00a315.9bn) of debt, wrote down the value of its assets during the first half, from 155.5bn dirhams to 147bn dirhams, reflecting the deep fall in property values over the past year. Property prices have plunged by about 50% since the global economy started to slip into recession.The company said it would pare back further capital expenditure by scaling down or mothballing some developments that had been planned for after 2012. It said the impairment charge \"relates to the writedown in the value of land to current fair market levels and the writedown of certain properties under construction relating to projects that have been delayed or scaled back\".The cost of insuring Dubai's debt against restructuring or default rose again as investors grew steadily more anxious about the ability of Dubai World to cope with its debts.The state-owned company stunned world markets two weeks ago when it said it would seek a six-month standstill on debt repayments, while it attempted to restructure the business. The government later prompted fury by refusing to stand behind the company and assume responsibility for the debts, despite its being a state-owned entity.Dubai's finance chief on Tuesday admitted that it would now probably need more than six months.Credit rating agency Moody's this week downgraded six Dubai government-related companies because of the perceived lack of support from the state.Investors, including British banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, are still assessing potential losses. As well as the property assets, Dubai World owns the former P&O \u2013 part of a wider ports business.The Dubai financial market's benchmark index fell by 6%, with the declines of the past three days wiping out a year's worth of gains. One of the biggest fallers was Emaar Properties, the company behind the world's tallest tower, which is yet to be completed, and in which the government holds a roughly one-third stake. The bourse in Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich state and the home of the United Arab Emirates federal government, fell by over 2.7%.Dubai World is shouldering total debts of about $60bn (\u00a336.9bn), but has indicated that it intends to ringfence the profitable parts of the conglomerate, including the ports business and its private equity arm, Istithmar World.In a sign that Dubai World may struggle to hold on to its prized assets, Istithmar lost its W Hotel in Manhattan in a foreclosure auction for $2m (\u00a31.23m) on Tuesday, after buying the property for $282m (\u00a3173.6m) in 2006.Analysts at Barclays Capital have warned that Dubai Holding, an investment company directly controlled by Dubai's ruler could be \"next in line\" with credit problems.", "tags": ["Dubai World", "Dubai", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Market jitters as Spain joins Dubai on danger list"},{"date": "2009-12-09T15:04:25Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Dubai, Greece and now Spain. Leading shares have moved into negative territory as Standard & Poor's cut it rating outlook on Spain from stable to negative.So having survived the pre-budget report pretty much unscathed, the FTSE 100 is now down 35.70 points to 5187.43. A opening dip on Wall Street is not helping sentiment.Back to Spain for a moment. Earlier today, before the S&P move, analysts at Credit Suisse issued a note looking at European countries and concluded:To us domestic Spain looks most vulnerable. Unlike in Greece, the price/book relative of domestic Spain is close to an all-time high (2% premium to Europe compared to a normal discount of 20%). Furthermore, the real effective exchange rate is 10% overvalued (i.e. domestic prices are 10% too high, relative to those in Europe, and with wage growth of 4% there has been no adjustment yet - so a 10% decline in price and wages is still needed relative to that of core Europe).Productivity growth has been zero for 20 years, so Spain can't innovate its way out of the crisis. Housing is still 12% overvalued, according to the IMF, (although on a house price to wage ratio of 6.2 we suspect housing is much more overvalued) and at peak 20% of GDP was accounted for by the housing sector and construction. Spain is about 20% overleveraged, looking at private sector debt as a proportion of GDP versus GDP per capita. And its aggregate leverage (private and government) is higher than that of Greece. S&P meanwhile warned that Spain faced a deeper deterioration in public finances and a longer period of weakness than it had expected in January:In our opinion, reducing Spain's sizable fiscal and economic imbalances requires strong policy actions which have not yet materialised.So with Spanish banks lower, there is some uncertainty among their UK counterparts. Royal Bank of Scotland is down 0.13p at 30.32p while Lloyds Banking Group is up 0.27p at 54.04p, off its earlier highs.", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Business", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Lloyds Banking Group"], "title": "FTSE 100 dips lower after S&P cautions on Spain"},{"date": "2009-10-05T22:58:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A British expatriate shot his wife before turning the gun on himself at their luxury home in Spain in what police yesterday said was a murder-suicide.Police named the couple as David and Heather Rouse, who lived in San Fulgencio near Alicante on the Costa Blanca. He was in his 70s and his wife in her 50s. A neighbour alerted the police at about 11.30pm on Sunday after hearing a strange noise, the Alicante civil guard said.\"It seems the main reason was the husband had some kind of terminal cancer and wanted to finish the story,\" a police spokesman said.Friends of the couple said doctors had recently diagnosed Rouse with terminal cancer. He had also suffered two strokes.Officers had found medical notes in the house that revealed his illness. Rouse left water and food for the couple's pet dog and cat, placed his identification on a table and left the front door open before taking his own life, according to police.A police source said: \"Mr Rouse appears to have planned the crime meticulously. He left documents out identifying himself and left food and water for the pets. The officers found both bodies in the bedroom. Mrs Rouse had been shot in the head with a shotgun as she slept. Mr Rouse had then used a long stick to fire the trigger of the shotgun and kill himself. Everything points to a murder-suicide although no note was found.\"Friends expressed bafflement at the couple's death as they had only recently booked a holiday cruise and Rouse had been due to pick up his sister from the airport yesterday. His sister arrived to be met by officers who broke the news to her.The couple moved into their five-bedroom villa near the town of San Fulgencio, south-east of Alicante, eight years ago. The house, set in three-quarters of an acre of grounds lined with palm trees is worth about \u00a3800,000. Rouse, reportedly a millionaire, recently put the home on the market.A post-mortem was carried out yesterday and the civil guard is investigating.\"It is a terrible tragedy that has shaken up the town,\" said Trinidad Martinez, the mayor of San Fulgencio. \"They were a very well-liked couple who were popular with neighbours.\"She added: \"There was never any suggestion of any kind of domestic abuse. The husband had suffered from a series of strokes and may have been suffering from depression. However, he had seemed in better health recently. His sister arrived at the airport and was horrified when she was told the news by officers from the civil guard. Our thoughts are with both families at this time.\"San Fulgencio is home to many expats, particularly Britons, who make up almost half of its population of 8,000. Last year a British expat, Mark Lewis, who speaks only a smattering of Spanish, took over as mayor after the previous mayor, deputy mayor and four senior councillors were arrested on charges of corruption.", "tags": ["UK news", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Expat in Spain shoots wife before turning gun on himself"},{"date": "2009-12-18T16:27:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Western Sahara's best-known human rights activist has ended a 32-day hunger strike in Spain and returned home after Morocco reversed its expulsion order against her.Aminatou Haidar, a 43-year-old single mother, was denied entry to Laayoune, capital of the contested territory, by Morocco last month when she returned from a trip to the US. Flown to the Canary Islands, she refused to leave Lanzarote airport, sparking a diplomatic wrangle between Spain and Morocco, the former and present occupying powers in Western Sahara.As Haidar's health deteriorated \u2013 she was hospitalised on Wednesday after drinking only sugar water for more than a month \u2013 the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, intervened, asking Morocco to return Haidar's confiscated passport. Accompanied by her personal doctor, she was flown home by charter plane early this morning.\"This is a triumph for international law, for human rights, for international justice and for the cause [of Western Sahara]\" Haidar told reporters before leaving Lanzarote. \"The first thing I am going to do when I arrive will be to kiss my mother and my two children.\"The dispute over Western Sahara, a desert territory south of Morocco, is one of the world's last remaining decolonisation issues. As Spain prepared to withdraw in 1975, the native Sahrawi people were promised a vote of self-determination in line with UN custom. But Morocco annexed the territory, despite a ruling in the international court of justice that rejected its claim of historical sovereignty.A 16-year-war with the Sahrawi nationalist Polisario Front ensued, ending with a ceasefire and an agreement to hold a UN-sponsored referendum on independence. But Morocco has never allowed the vote to take place, and now says that autonomy is the best available option. About 100,000 Sahrawi refugees remain in limbo in Polisario-administered camps in south-western Algeria.Within Western Sahara, talk of independence is completely taboo and even mention of Sahrawi identity invites trouble. Haidar, who spent nearly four years as a \"disappeared\" prisoner from the age of 20 and last year won the Robert F Kennedy human rights award for her work, was expelled after refusing to acknowledge her nationality as Moroccan on the airport arrival form on 14 November.In Lanzarote she rejected the offer of Spanish citizenship or political asylum, and her cause was taken up by an array of Spanish celebrities, including the filmmaker Pedro Almod\u00f3var and the actor Javier Bardem, who said Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, the prime minister, would be to blame if Haidar died on Spain's soil.Morocco had initially taken a hard line, saying Haidar would only be permitted to return to Western Sahara if she swore allegiance to King Mohammed VI. While terms of the deal to end the stalemate remain unclear, the Moroccan government said today that it had agreed to a request from \"friendly countries and partners\" to allow Haidar home.", "tags": ["Morocco", "Spain", "Human rights", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Morocco allows Western Saharan hunger striker to return home"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-02-13T13:52:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Ferran Adri\u00e0, the Catalan chef celebrated for creating such dishes as turtle dove with blackberry caviar and duck foie gras candies, has decided to permanently close his famously experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain.Adri\u00e0 will replace the restaurant, which in its deconstruction of traditional dishes creates as much bewilderment among diners as pleasure, with an academy for advanced culinary study, according to the New York Times.He decided to permanently shut El Bulli, which has won three Michelin stars and was last year named the world's best restaurant for the fourth year by Restaurant magazine in Britain, because he and his partner, Juli Soler, had been losing \u20ac500,000 (\u00a3433,728) a year on the restaurant and his cooking workshop in Barcelona, the paper's food blog reported.He said he would use his earnings from consultancies and other businesses to establish his new culinary academy and to fund scholarships.The restaurant will reopen for six months in June and close for good in December 2011.Adri\u00e0 told an international culinary conference last month that the restaurant would temporarily shut its doors in 2012 and 2013. He said then that the closure was due to the difficulties of working 15 hours a day.Tables for the six-month season at El Bulli sell out in a day and two million people \u2013 including the world's great and good \u2013 have competed for a mere 8,000 settings in the past few years.", "tags": ["Ferran Adri\u00e0", "Chefs", "Restaurants", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Ferran Adri\u00e0 to close experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-02-13T13:52:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Ferran Adri\u00e0, the Catalan chef celebrated for creating such dishes as turtle dove with blackberry caviar and duck foie gras candies, has decided to permanently close his famously experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain.Adri\u00e0 will replace the restaurant, which in its deconstruction of traditional dishes creates as much bewilderment among diners as pleasure, with an academy for advanced culinary study, according to the New York Times.He decided to permanently shut El Bulli, which has won three Michelin stars and was last year named the world's best restaurant for the fourth year by Restaurant magazine in Britain, because he and his partner, Juli Soler, had been losing \u20ac500,000 (\u00a3433,728) a year on the restaurant and his cooking workshop in Barcelona, the paper's food blog reported.He said he would use his earnings from consultancies and other businesses to establish his new culinary academy and to fund scholarships.The restaurant will reopen for six months in June and close for good in December 2011.Adri\u00e0 told an international culinary conference last month that the restaurant would temporarily shut its doors in 2012 and 2013. He said then that the closure was due to the difficulties of working 15 hours a day.Tables for the six-month season at El Bulli sell out in a day and two million people \u2013 including the world's great and good \u2013 have competed for a mere 8,000 settings in the past few years.", "tags": ["Ferran Adri\u00e0", "Chefs", "Restaurants", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Ferran Adri\u00e0 to close experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-05T13:32:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain, which holds the European Union presidency, does not plan to follow Barack Obama's lead on pushing for a radical overhaul of banking guidelines.Proposals to limit proprietary trading \u2013 where banks invest their own funds, instead of on behalf of clients \u2013 or limit banks' activities in hedge or private equity funds cannot be put on the EU agenda \"just because there was some news last week,\" Spain's economy secretary, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Campa, told theguardian.com.The country, which does not have a big hedge fund community and whose banks have not made forays into proprietary trading, plans to follow European guidelines focusing on supervision as the main way to restore balance in the financial system, Campa said.\"We need to reassure that the main goal of the financial system has to be to channel credit towards the productive economy,\" he added.Although an agreement could be reached on financial supervision, each EU country sets its own fiscal policy, making it difficult for member countries to agree an overall tax policy on banks or bankers. Britain has already implemented plans to tax bonuses and increase taxes for high earners, a policy that France is also considering.Spanish banks, however, are more focused on commercial than investment banking, and the Bank of Spain already imposes stringent controls on their activities.", "tags": ["Banking", "Spain", "Obama administration", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Hedge funds", "Private equity", "Financial crisis", "European Union", "World news", "Business", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Spain rejects Obama plan for banking reform"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-02-13T13:52:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Ferran Adri\u00e0, the Catalan chef celebrated for creating such dishes as turtle dove with blackberry caviar and duck foie gras candies, has decided to permanently close his famously experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain.Adri\u00e0 will replace the restaurant, which in its deconstruction of traditional dishes creates as much bewilderment among diners as pleasure, with an academy for advanced culinary study, according to the New York Times.He decided to permanently shut El Bulli, which has won three Michelin stars and was last year named the world's best restaurant for the fourth year by Restaurant magazine in Britain, because he and his partner, Juli Soler, had been losing \u20ac500,000 (\u00a3433,728) a year on the restaurant and his cooking workshop in Barcelona, the paper's food blog reported.He said he would use his earnings from consultancies and other businesses to establish his new culinary academy and to fund scholarships.The restaurant will reopen for six months in June and close for good in December 2011.Adri\u00e0 told an international culinary conference last month that the restaurant would temporarily shut its doors in 2012 and 2013. He said then that the closure was due to the difficulties of working 15 hours a day.Tables for the six-month season at El Bulli sell out in a day and two million people \u2013 including the world's great and good \u2013 have competed for a mere 8,000 settings in the past few years.", "tags": ["Ferran Adri\u00e0", "Chefs", "Restaurants", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Ferran Adri\u00e0 to close experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-05T13:32:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain, which holds the European Union presidency, does not plan to follow Barack Obama's lead on pushing for a radical overhaul of banking guidelines.Proposals to limit proprietary trading \u2013 where banks invest their own funds, instead of on behalf of clients \u2013 or limit banks' activities in hedge or private equity funds cannot be put on the EU agenda \"just because there was some news last week,\" Spain's economy secretary, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Campa, told theguardian.com.The country, which does not have a big hedge fund community and whose banks have not made forays into proprietary trading, plans to follow European guidelines focusing on supervision as the main way to restore balance in the financial system, Campa said.\"We need to reassure that the main goal of the financial system has to be to channel credit towards the productive economy,\" he added.Although an agreement could be reached on financial supervision, each EU country sets its own fiscal policy, making it difficult for member countries to agree an overall tax policy on banks or bankers. Britain has already implemented plans to tax bonuses and increase taxes for high earners, a policy that France is also considering.Spanish banks, however, are more focused on commercial than investment banking, and the Bank of Spain already imposes stringent controls on their activities.", "tags": ["Banking", "Spain", "Obama administration", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Hedge funds", "Private equity", "Financial crisis", "European Union", "World news", "Business", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Spain rejects Obama plan for banking reform"},{"date": "2010-01-24T00:05:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "After 20 years of living and travelling in Spain, I like to think I have a handle on the country and its people. Every so often, however, they can still spring a surprise.Like when Guillermo Ma\u00f1ana, a 70-year-old scholar, first told me about the 56km Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa. The Cam\u00edn Real, said Guillermo, was an ancient trail through the mountains of northern Spain, winding spectacularly among some of the grandest yet loneliest and least-known scenery in Europe. I had never heard of it, but if I was up for it, he said, he'd show me the secrets of this magical route.That was in May 2009. I had just met Guillermo through a friend in Oviedo, capital of the region of Asturias, where together we walked the awe-inspiring gorge of the river Cares in the Picos de Europa mountains. Since he retired from his profession as an anaesthetist, he has devoted his time and energy to his overriding passion: the mountain landscapes of his Asturian homeland.I was already familiar with his marvellous books, a series of lavish tomes documenting these landscapes in extraordinary detail. Now, he told me, he was preparing what would perhaps be his greatest work, a definitive study of the Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa.For centuries the Cam\u00edn was one of the few points of contact between the provinces of Le\u00f3n and Asturias. It is essentially Roman in construction, but the route has been used for trade for 5,000 years, traversing a mountain range with peaks of 2,000m, reaching into some of Spain's most wildly beautiful and otherwise inaccessible landscapes.While livestock and gold mining were flourishing industries, the way held a strategic importance. But with the rise of modern roads it fell into disuse, and now it is barely known except by a few local farmers and a handful of keen walkers who are happy to stay off the beaten track.I was gripped by Guillermo's vision of this long and winding road, its historical importance and its near-obliteration at the hands of modern life. So we arranged a two-day trek on the section of the way that is accessible only to walkers, leaving out the northerly part which has been covered with asphalt, its beauty spoilt.Our route would take us from Torrestio, at the northern edge of the province of Le\u00f3n, to the village of Dolia in the county of Belmonte, Asturias \u2013 a distance of some 30km. At both ends of the route there would be simple places to stay, but the Cam\u00edn passes through no other villages, so the plan was to take food and a sleeping bag. In summer you can sleep under the stars or take a tent but, since it was autumn, we would bed down in one of the thatched shepherds' huts, called teitos.The night before our departure, my guide sent me a text: \"Weather terrible. Cold front. Thick sleeping bag. Waterproof clothing.\" I felt a shiver of dread.We met up on Sunday night in the mountain town of San Emiliano, on the Le\u00f3n side of the Cordillera Cant\u00e1brica, and dined on fried eggs and chorizo in the Hostal de Monta\u00f1a, a simple mountain hostel. Before dawn next day we drove to the hamlet of Torrestio, under a dark sky as cold and clear as spring water. At 7am there was a blanket of mist over the valley, but it was the right sort of mist, said Guillermo, the sort that would burn off quickly, leaving bright skies.We set off in the half-dark, heading up the Valle de las Partidas: the Valley of Departures. Up ahead, the first rays of sun were beautifying the squat grey peak of El Mu\u00f1\u00f3n.At the top of the valley was a fence marking the border between the two regions, Castilla y Le\u00f3n and Asturias. A concrete pillar gave the height above sea level: 1782m. To the north lay a wide stretch of pasture between mountains: the Mesa, or tableland, from which the Cam\u00edn takes its name. Brown cows with wide horns stood and stared as we passed, and the quiet was blurred only by waterfalls and cowbells.Further down the Mesa lay a scattering of stone huts, some round and low, others square, roofed with tiles or thatch. These hamlets, called bra\u00f1as, are the only human settlements in these mountains. Until 10 years ago 12 or 15 families might have spent the summer up there with the cows, subsisting on rye bread and onions, potatoes and lentils. It was a life of simplicity, hardship and closeness to nature, and has now almost entirely vanished.We stopped beside a waterfall for lunch \u2013 Asturian cheese, Serrano ham, black chocolate, and bread with olive oil. We drank fresh spring water, but also supped from a leather skin filled with Valdepe\u00f1as wine.A shepherd came by looking for a lost foal. A pair of binoculars hung around his neck, and by his side was a dog as big as a small pony. He'd been looking for the horse all yesterday, peering up the mountain through the rain and mist. But he feared the worst: last spring four or five of his horses had been taken by wolves. Not everyone is happy that, after many years in decline, the local wolf population is on the increase, and his dog wore a chain-mail collar bristling with metal spikes to protect him.As we walked Guillermo pointed out curious historical, natural or architectural sights along the way, ranging from a wide meadow called Xuego La Bola \u2013 where the shepherds came to play bowls \u2013 to a long trench that had been an eighth-century defensive wall during the reign of Alfonso ll, part of Catholic Spain's protection against the Muslim hordes who had already claimed most of the peninsula.The Cam\u00edn Real is little documented except by a handful of adepts including Guillermo, who has spent years mapping it and searching for its history in the great archives of Spain. Bronze-age burial mounds can be seen along the route, but it was the Romans, or rather, their slaves, who built a proper four-metre-wide path.By the third century AD it was the main access route between Le\u00f3n and Asturias, used primarily by Roman civil servants and gold dealers heading south from the mines of Belmonte. It remained an important commercial corridor, with all sorts of goods \u2013 wool and cloth, wheat and wine, sheep and salt fish \u2013 travelling back and forth. Impromptu toll stations were set up, levying a tax on \"brides and corpses\".Then in the early 19th century, a trunk road was built linking Le\u00f3n and Oviedo via the Pajares pass, and the Cam\u00edn fell into disuse. Parts of it were completely destroyed, especially at the northern end near Pravia, or became abandoned and overgrown. But it remained a secret door into the stunning wilderness of the Somiedo reserve.Roman road-building skills made the Cam\u00edn a broad path with a modest gradient. The walk is never gruelling, but the views are spectacular \u2013 grey-white mountains looming over deep valleys lined with beech, and gorges with patches of pasture clinging to shelf-like plateaus along their length. On the far horizon lay a line of palest blue: the Cantabrian sea. After eight hours, we stumbled into the shadow of a strange crag, La Pe\u00f1a Negra (the black rock), as dark and sinister as something out of The Hobbit.Our accommodation that night would have appealed to the Baggins family. Bra\u00f1a La Corra, a collection of seven roughly thatched stone teitos, were deserted but in reasonable condition, their maintenance funded by the Asturian government. Shepherds live there in summer, but walkers are free to use any left open, though they can't be reserved. The owner of one had offered Guillermo use of it if ever he were passing, so we laid out our sleeping rolls on its hay-strewn floor.From the terrace of our rustic lodging, 1,200m up, we could see the deep Valle de Saliencia below us and glacial lakes to the south, among a bristle of ash-grey peaks. The thick forests opposite are one of last remaining habitats of the Cantabrian bear, of which some 130 remain. Old-timers around these parts, said Guillermo as we ate our supper of sardines, bananas and almond turr\u00f3n (nougat) often tell tales of bears, how they came down to the villages, destroyed beehives, and were hunted ruthlessly.At 7pm, night fell like a stone and so did the temperature. Having no lights to read by, we cocooned ourselves in our sleeping bags, and Guillermo told me stories about the Cam\u00edn Real, its history and legends, of a convoy of 45 ox-drawn carts that carried alabaster quarried in Guadalajara on a six-week journey from Torrestio to Salas, to build a mausoleum for Archbishop Vald\u00e9s Salas \u2013 an important inquisitor who died in 1569. It remains the most important Renaissance monument in the principality, and on the Cam\u00edn itself.The next day we discovered the remains of a venta, a small stone shop in a wide green pasture called Piedra Jueves (Jupiter's altar), that once sold wine, and vinegar for the feet, to shepherds who had travelled for days to bring their sheep to the spot.We stood at the crest of the hill, surveying an Impressionist wash of grey-green broom, yellow birch, and a scarlet stipple of rowan berries. I looked in vain for a building, a road, or a human figure, but there were none. In August you might meet groups of walkers, cyclists or riders, but off-season the mountains slump back into solitude, and on the entire journey we saw only three mountain bikers, a couple of horsemen, and the occasional shepherd in a 4x4, checking on the livestock.The floor of the valley was speckled with bleached heaps of stone which, centuries before, had been dwellings. Guillermo, who had known the Cam\u00edn as a populated place 35 years ago, told me about a great livestock fair that had been held annually up here, 1,000m above sea level, where shepherd clans from Somiedo, Teverga and Belmonte had met up to party.The road itself has fallen into rui, too, and been further damaged by occasional four-wheel drive vehicles and quad bikes.\"Do you see now what jewels we have, and what a state they're in?\" Guillermo said bitterly, pointing to a potholed and muddied section. \"It should be a national monument.\"At Cueiro the Cam\u00edn diverges, east towards Oviedo (the Cam\u00edn Franc\u00e9s) or north to Llanera and Gij\u00f3n. We struck north, passing a large former venta, now a barn, ripe for conversion into a simple B&B for walkers unwilling to sleep on a floor covered with hay. I peered through the window of the venta's derelict chapel. The altar was piled with old whisky bottles.The village of Dolia was pretty and bucolic, snoozing amid hazel woods, but the asphalt underfoot and the power lines overhead came as a shock after our three days in the wilderness. For when the tarmac begins, the spell of the Cam\u00edn Real starts to wane. We had covered three-quarters of the 40km that can still be walked. The last quarter, where it pushes into the 21st century world of petrol stations and builders' merchants, has lost its mystery. We called a taxi and took a last draught of Valdepe\u00f1as from the wineskin.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel", "Camping holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Secrets of Spain revealed on a road less travelled"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-02-13T13:52:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Ferran Adri\u00e0, the Catalan chef celebrated for creating such dishes as turtle dove with blackberry caviar and duck foie gras candies, has decided to permanently close his famously experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain.Adri\u00e0 will replace the restaurant, which in its deconstruction of traditional dishes creates as much bewilderment among diners as pleasure, with an academy for advanced culinary study, according to the New York Times.He decided to permanently shut El Bulli, which has won three Michelin stars and was last year named the world's best restaurant for the fourth year by Restaurant magazine in Britain, because he and his partner, Juli Soler, had been losing \u20ac500,000 (\u00a3433,728) a year on the restaurant and his cooking workshop in Barcelona, the paper's food blog reported.He said he would use his earnings from consultancies and other businesses to establish his new culinary academy and to fund scholarships.The restaurant will reopen for six months in June and close for good in December 2011.Adri\u00e0 told an international culinary conference last month that the restaurant would temporarily shut its doors in 2012 and 2013. He said then that the closure was due to the difficulties of working 15 hours a day.Tables for the six-month season at El Bulli sell out in a day and two million people \u2013 including the world's great and good \u2013 have competed for a mere 8,000 settings in the past few years.", "tags": ["Ferran Adri\u00e0", "Chefs", "Restaurants", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Ferran Adri\u00e0 to close experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-05T13:32:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain, which holds the European Union presidency, does not plan to follow Barack Obama's lead on pushing for a radical overhaul of banking guidelines.Proposals to limit proprietary trading \u2013 where banks invest their own funds, instead of on behalf of clients \u2013 or limit banks' activities in hedge or private equity funds cannot be put on the EU agenda \"just because there was some news last week,\" Spain's economy secretary, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Campa, told theguardian.com.The country, which does not have a big hedge fund community and whose banks have not made forays into proprietary trading, plans to follow European guidelines focusing on supervision as the main way to restore balance in the financial system, Campa said.\"We need to reassure that the main goal of the financial system has to be to channel credit towards the productive economy,\" he added.Although an agreement could be reached on financial supervision, each EU country sets its own fiscal policy, making it difficult for member countries to agree an overall tax policy on banks or bankers. Britain has already implemented plans to tax bonuses and increase taxes for high earners, a policy that France is also considering.Spanish banks, however, are more focused on commercial than investment banking, and the Bank of Spain already imposes stringent controls on their activities.", "tags": ["Banking", "Spain", "Obama administration", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Hedge funds", "Private equity", "Financial crisis", "European Union", "World news", "Business", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Spain rejects Obama plan for banking reform"},{"date": "2010-01-24T00:05:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "After 20 years of living and travelling in Spain, I like to think I have a handle on the country and its people. Every so often, however, they can still spring a surprise.Like when Guillermo Ma\u00f1ana, a 70-year-old scholar, first told me about the 56km Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa. The Cam\u00edn Real, said Guillermo, was an ancient trail through the mountains of northern Spain, winding spectacularly among some of the grandest yet loneliest and least-known scenery in Europe. I had never heard of it, but if I was up for it, he said, he'd show me the secrets of this magical route.That was in May 2009. I had just met Guillermo through a friend in Oviedo, capital of the region of Asturias, where together we walked the awe-inspiring gorge of the river Cares in the Picos de Europa mountains. Since he retired from his profession as an anaesthetist, he has devoted his time and energy to his overriding passion: the mountain landscapes of his Asturian homeland.I was already familiar with his marvellous books, a series of lavish tomes documenting these landscapes in extraordinary detail. Now, he told me, he was preparing what would perhaps be his greatest work, a definitive study of the Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa.For centuries the Cam\u00edn was one of the few points of contact between the provinces of Le\u00f3n and Asturias. It is essentially Roman in construction, but the route has been used for trade for 5,000 years, traversing a mountain range with peaks of 2,000m, reaching into some of Spain's most wildly beautiful and otherwise inaccessible landscapes.While livestock and gold mining were flourishing industries, the way held a strategic importance. But with the rise of modern roads it fell into disuse, and now it is barely known except by a few local farmers and a handful of keen walkers who are happy to stay off the beaten track.I was gripped by Guillermo's vision of this long and winding road, its historical importance and its near-obliteration at the hands of modern life. So we arranged a two-day trek on the section of the way that is accessible only to walkers, leaving out the northerly part which has been covered with asphalt, its beauty spoilt.Our route would take us from Torrestio, at the northern edge of the province of Le\u00f3n, to the village of Dolia in the county of Belmonte, Asturias \u2013 a distance of some 30km. At both ends of the route there would be simple places to stay, but the Cam\u00edn passes through no other villages, so the plan was to take food and a sleeping bag. In summer you can sleep under the stars or take a tent but, since it was autumn, we would bed down in one of the thatched shepherds' huts, called teitos.The night before our departure, my guide sent me a text: \"Weather terrible. Cold front. Thick sleeping bag. Waterproof clothing.\" I felt a shiver of dread.We met up on Sunday night in the mountain town of San Emiliano, on the Le\u00f3n side of the Cordillera Cant\u00e1brica, and dined on fried eggs and chorizo in the Hostal de Monta\u00f1a, a simple mountain hostel. Before dawn next day we drove to the hamlet of Torrestio, under a dark sky as cold and clear as spring water. At 7am there was a blanket of mist over the valley, but it was the right sort of mist, said Guillermo, the sort that would burn off quickly, leaving bright skies.We set off in the half-dark, heading up the Valle de las Partidas: the Valley of Departures. Up ahead, the first rays of sun were beautifying the squat grey peak of El Mu\u00f1\u00f3n.At the top of the valley was a fence marking the border between the two regions, Castilla y Le\u00f3n and Asturias. A concrete pillar gave the height above sea level: 1782m. To the north lay a wide stretch of pasture between mountains: the Mesa, or tableland, from which the Cam\u00edn takes its name. Brown cows with wide horns stood and stared as we passed, and the quiet was blurred only by waterfalls and cowbells.Further down the Mesa lay a scattering of stone huts, some round and low, others square, roofed with tiles or thatch. These hamlets, called bra\u00f1as, are the only human settlements in these mountains. Until 10 years ago 12 or 15 families might have spent the summer up there with the cows, subsisting on rye bread and onions, potatoes and lentils. It was a life of simplicity, hardship and closeness to nature, and has now almost entirely vanished.We stopped beside a waterfall for lunch \u2013 Asturian cheese, Serrano ham, black chocolate, and bread with olive oil. We drank fresh spring water, but also supped from a leather skin filled with Valdepe\u00f1as wine.A shepherd came by looking for a lost foal. A pair of binoculars hung around his neck, and by his side was a dog as big as a small pony. He'd been looking for the horse all yesterday, peering up the mountain through the rain and mist. But he feared the worst: last spring four or five of his horses had been taken by wolves. Not everyone is happy that, after many years in decline, the local wolf population is on the increase, and his dog wore a chain-mail collar bristling with metal spikes to protect him.As we walked Guillermo pointed out curious historical, natural or architectural sights along the way, ranging from a wide meadow called Xuego La Bola \u2013 where the shepherds came to play bowls \u2013 to a long trench that had been an eighth-century defensive wall during the reign of Alfonso ll, part of Catholic Spain's protection against the Muslim hordes who had already claimed most of the peninsula.The Cam\u00edn Real is little documented except by a handful of adepts including Guillermo, who has spent years mapping it and searching for its history in the great archives of Spain. Bronze-age burial mounds can be seen along the route, but it was the Romans, or rather, their slaves, who built a proper four-metre-wide path.By the third century AD it was the main access route between Le\u00f3n and Asturias, used primarily by Roman civil servants and gold dealers heading south from the mines of Belmonte. It remained an important commercial corridor, with all sorts of goods \u2013 wool and cloth, wheat and wine, sheep and salt fish \u2013 travelling back and forth. Impromptu toll stations were set up, levying a tax on \"brides and corpses\".Then in the early 19th century, a trunk road was built linking Le\u00f3n and Oviedo via the Pajares pass, and the Cam\u00edn fell into disuse. Parts of it were completely destroyed, especially at the northern end near Pravia, or became abandoned and overgrown. But it remained a secret door into the stunning wilderness of the Somiedo reserve.Roman road-building skills made the Cam\u00edn a broad path with a modest gradient. The walk is never gruelling, but the views are spectacular \u2013 grey-white mountains looming over deep valleys lined with beech, and gorges with patches of pasture clinging to shelf-like plateaus along their length. On the far horizon lay a line of palest blue: the Cantabrian sea. After eight hours, we stumbled into the shadow of a strange crag, La Pe\u00f1a Negra (the black rock), as dark and sinister as something out of The Hobbit.Our accommodation that night would have appealed to the Baggins family. Bra\u00f1a La Corra, a collection of seven roughly thatched stone teitos, were deserted but in reasonable condition, their maintenance funded by the Asturian government. Shepherds live there in summer, but walkers are free to use any left open, though they can't be reserved. The owner of one had offered Guillermo use of it if ever he were passing, so we laid out our sleeping rolls on its hay-strewn floor.From the terrace of our rustic lodging, 1,200m up, we could see the deep Valle de Saliencia below us and glacial lakes to the south, among a bristle of ash-grey peaks. The thick forests opposite are one of last remaining habitats of the Cantabrian bear, of which some 130 remain. Old-timers around these parts, said Guillermo as we ate our supper of sardines, bananas and almond turr\u00f3n (nougat) often tell tales of bears, how they came down to the villages, destroyed beehives, and were hunted ruthlessly.At 7pm, night fell like a stone and so did the temperature. Having no lights to read by, we cocooned ourselves in our sleeping bags, and Guillermo told me stories about the Cam\u00edn Real, its history and legends, of a convoy of 45 ox-drawn carts that carried alabaster quarried in Guadalajara on a six-week journey from Torrestio to Salas, to build a mausoleum for Archbishop Vald\u00e9s Salas \u2013 an important inquisitor who died in 1569. It remains the most important Renaissance monument in the principality, and on the Cam\u00edn itself.The next day we discovered the remains of a venta, a small stone shop in a wide green pasture called Piedra Jueves (Jupiter's altar), that once sold wine, and vinegar for the feet, to shepherds who had travelled for days to bring their sheep to the spot.We stood at the crest of the hill, surveying an Impressionist wash of grey-green broom, yellow birch, and a scarlet stipple of rowan berries. I looked in vain for a building, a road, or a human figure, but there were none. In August you might meet groups of walkers, cyclists or riders, but off-season the mountains slump back into solitude, and on the entire journey we saw only three mountain bikers, a couple of horsemen, and the occasional shepherd in a 4x4, checking on the livestock.The floor of the valley was speckled with bleached heaps of stone which, centuries before, had been dwellings. Guillermo, who had known the Cam\u00edn as a populated place 35 years ago, told me about a great livestock fair that had been held annually up here, 1,000m above sea level, where shepherd clans from Somiedo, Teverga and Belmonte had met up to party.The road itself has fallen into rui, too, and been further damaged by occasional four-wheel drive vehicles and quad bikes.\"Do you see now what jewels we have, and what a state they're in?\" Guillermo said bitterly, pointing to a potholed and muddied section. \"It should be a national monument.\"At Cueiro the Cam\u00edn diverges, east towards Oviedo (the Cam\u00edn Franc\u00e9s) or north to Llanera and Gij\u00f3n. We struck north, passing a large former venta, now a barn, ripe for conversion into a simple B&B for walkers unwilling to sleep on a floor covered with hay. I peered through the window of the venta's derelict chapel. The altar was piled with old whisky bottles.The village of Dolia was pretty and bucolic, snoozing amid hazel woods, but the asphalt underfoot and the power lines overhead came as a shock after our three days in the wilderness. For when the tarmac begins, the spell of the Cam\u00edn Real starts to wane. We had covered three-quarters of the 40km that can still be walked. The last quarter, where it pushes into the 21st century world of petrol stations and builders' merchants, has lost its mystery. We called a taxi and took a last draught of Valdepe\u00f1as from the wineskin.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel", "Camping holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Secrets of Spain revealed on a road less travelled"},{"date": "2010-01-08T19:20:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Spain delivered a divisive call today for more common economic policy-making across Europe, demanding a \"qualitative leap\" in the common economic governance of the EU, \"binding\" targets and penalties for laggards, and more powers for the European Commission in policing the proposed new regime.Launching Madrid's six-month rotating presidency of the EU which began on New Year's Day, Elena Salgado, the economics and finance minister, said the financial crisis and ensuing recession had wrought a seachange in European governments' attitudes to pooling economic policy-making.\"The French position is very similar [to Spain's] and [is shared] also in many other countries,\" she said. \"The EU has to reinforce the coordination of its economic policies.\"Herman Van Rompuy, the EU's new permanent council president, has called a special economic summit for next month in Brussels after warning in his first speech this week that much of western Europe faces the prospect of \"de-industrialisation\" coming out of the recession.In Madrid today he appeared to give tacit support to the Spanish pan-European drive, arguing that a series of recent events would be seen as gamechangers, spurring the EU to converge in order to compete.The \"European way of life\", he said, was imperilled by the prospect of protracted low structural growth, while the financial crisis and recession as well as the failure of Copenhagen climate talks had shown how the balance of global power was tilting away from Europe which had been put on the defensive.Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Spain's socialist prime minister, made clear that he would seek to exploit the instruments of the EU's new Lisbon Treaty to join President Nicolas Sarkozy of France in pushing for contentious Europe-wide spending, investment, and tax policies.Zapatero said he wanted next month's summit to draw up a 10-year plan for compulsory EU economic policies and that there could be sanctions or \"corrective action\" against member states who do not comply.While Spanish officials declined to specify exactly how and in what areas economic policy-making should converge, Salgado emphasised energy policy, saying that the EU should speak with \"one voice\" when negotiating energy deals with third countries such as Russia.This could mean vesting authority in the European Commission to negotiate on energy similar to the powers it enjoys in negotiating trade issues with the rest of the world on behalf of the 27 EU states.\"We are convinced it is a good thing to have a European economic policy. The Lisbon Treaty allows more coordination. We should make sure to give the Commission new powers,\" Zapatero said.Salgado indicated that the eurogroup of the 16 EU members using the single currency could act as pioneer in forging ahead with common policies and she and the prime minister also voiced support for regular summits of the eurozone countries, an initiative first launched by Sarkozy 18 months ago and vehemently opposed by Gordon Brown.The Spanish moves would also be strongly opposed by a UK conservative government under David Cameron and similar French-led campaigning over the years has been swatted aside by Germany which fears political interference in the operations of the European Central Bank.Van Rompuy, however, indicated that events could be conspiring in the integrationists' favour and Zapatero said that a new \"dialogue\" should be inaugurated between the ECB and the \"European Council\" of national government chiefs.Earlier campaigns, such as the \"Lisbon Strategy\" aimed at making the EU the most competitive economy in the world by this year, had failed because commitments were merely rhetorical rather than mandatory, Zapatero said.\"It is absolutely necessary for the 2020 economic strategy... to take on a new nature, a binding nature.\"Asked whether laggards could forfeit EU budget payments, he said: \"This is something we are going to put on the table...Our main aim is to introduce a qualitative leap in our economic union by means of new common policies.\"", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "European Union", "European Central Bank", "European commission", "Conservatives", "Europe"], "title": "Spain calls for a binding EU economic strategy"},{"date": "2010-03-28T18:00:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If there's a leitmotif to living in the south of Spain, it might be the sound of people droning on interminably about how dry it is. The inevitable concomitant to drought is endless days of blue sky and sunshine and country people can become a little depressed as week after week passes with still not a drop of rain.Autumn was like that, with no rain in the rainiest months of October and November, and a mood of gloomy resignation had set in. And then, on the night of 23 December 2009, the heavens opened. At the same time, a freak winter heatwave melted the snow on the tops of the Sierra Nevada; the three rivers that meet in our valley came roaring out of their respective gorges like the hordes of Beelzebub.At six in the morning my neighbour, Domingo, rang me. It must have been serious: nobody ever rings that early. \"Can you get me your car keys?\" he asked.\"Why?\" I wondered, although in my heart of hearts I knew.\"Because the river has got up like never before, and it's taken the bridge and the road on both sides. It's still rising and in half an hour it'll have your car, and it looks like it's heading for your olive fields.\"I sort of liked the car, and it would have been a shame to lose it, but there was no way I could get the keys to Domingo. So I went back to bed where it was dry and warm and the wife was. That was three months ago . . . and it's still raining.Andaluc\u00eda has never known anything like it, and the Alpujarra, where I live, at the foot of the highest mountains in the peninsula, has suffered more than most. Landslips and rockfalls block the roads; houses and land have been taken by the rivers; villages have been cut off for weeks. There was frenzied anticipation downriver when news got out that one of the ham-drying houses in Trev\u00e9lez had been washed into the river. People here are obsessive about ham, and many lips were licked at the thought of thousands of succulent Trev\u00e9lez hams hurtling down the river. Unfortunately, when they finally appeared, the water had stripped them of every last shred of meat. The thought of this depressed people even more than the deluge; nobody here will ever pray for rain again.However, the hills and valleys are green like never before; the sheep are fat and happy, and it's been a hell of a year for the wild asparagus.", "tags": ["Spain", "Granada holidays", "World news"], "title": "Chris Stewart on the relentless rain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-03-03T18:12:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called \"Mariposa\" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made.\"They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime,\" Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet \"handles\" and their ages: \"netkairo\", 31; \"jonyloleante\", 30; and \"ostiator\", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount \"denial of service\" attacks against companies \u2013 or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: \"It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were.\"Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet \u2013 its \"runners\" \u2013 had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for \"butterfly.\"\"I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective,\" said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. \"It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him.\"But, he added: \"Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss.\"While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests \u2013 nor even any public idenfication of suspects \u2013 in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines \u2013 pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.", "tags": ["Data and computer security", "Hacking", "Technology", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alleged controllers of 'Mariposa' botnet arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-19T19:38:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The prime ministers of Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway have warned the financial community that they will prioritise growth over deficit cuts, and have asked speculators to change their short-term view for one that is more favourable to society as a whole.The message from Gordon Brown, Spain's Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, George Papandreou of Greece and Norway's Jens Stoltenberg is likely to infuriate some investors, who are pushing governments with high deficits to cut their ballooning debts on concerns about their ability to repay the money they owe.\"The agenda for the European Union this year should be growth and jobs,\" Brown said during a conference organised by the Policy Network, a centre-left thinktank, in London.\"We won't fall in the trap of those who provoked the credit crunch,\" Zapatero said. \"We will cut the deficit when economic recovery is active, but not at the expense of social cohesion.\"Over the past few weeks, the four left-wing leaders have suffered the attacks of speculators who do not believe politicians have their economies under control: in Britain and Spain, investors' sales have pushed bond yields higher, making the countries' borrowings more expensive \u2013 as well as the long-term interest rates that citizens pay in contracts such as mortgages. Speculators have also pushed up the price of protection against potential defaults on Greek, Portuguese and Spanish state debt, exacerbating negative sentiment towards the countries.Papandreou reassured investors of his country's ability to improve its ailing public finances \u2013 including a draconian budget deficit cut to 3% of gross domestic product by 2013, from 12% now. \"Greece is our problem \u2013 we're not looking for bailouts or money from other countries. We have a programme and the support for this programme and we'll do what's necessary to reach the targets. We want to borrow on the same terms as the others,\" Papandreou said.He was supported by European Union competition commissioner Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, who defended the EU's guarded approach towards the Greek crisis, saying that \"you can't promise a party everything they're asking for\".In an interview during the conference, Almunia said that the EU's response to the Greek crisis, which has been much criticised by investors for its lack of detail, is \"serious and responsible\".However, with local strikes and popular opposition to the cuts, few investors believe the country will meet its targets. As he spoke, protection against a potential default of his country was trading at twice as much that of other European countries. \"We have the power, if we have the will, to deal with some kinds of speculation,\" Papandreou said. Financial instruments should be \"tools\" to help citizens lead a better life, whereas \"they are God for the conservatives,\" he said.Greece may find help from Spain, as during his six-month EU presidency Zapatero will try to toughen regulation of credit default swaps \u2013 the instruments traded as sovereign credit protection, the Spanish prime minister told the Guardian on the sidelines of the conference.\"We have to tell the markets that they should have a more medium and long-term perspective,\" the Spanish leader said during the summit. \"They are also interested in an economic recovery that brings stability and tranquility for all.\"But investors claim there is still huge distance between the two sides \u2013 governments and markets \u2013 that are now battling to find the best way out of the worst recession in 60 years. While politicians \"talk the talk\" \u2013 instead of offering a more specific plan on how to help Greece \u2013 financial investors will keep looking only at the numbers, Evolution Securities analyst Gary Jenkins recently said.\"The market is now only interested in liquidity. We have to be focused on the short term: if you're concerned about funding, you have to look short-term,\" Jenkins said.Brown called for more action and further global change on financial regulation over the next G20 meetings this year. A renewed global approach is needed as the \"internationalism spirit of the G20 summit in London last year has somehow melted away,\" Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, said at the conference.\"We can't leave things as they were \u2013 we won't withdraw from speculation beyond borders, from tax heavens,\" Zapatero said.\"It's a paradox that the markets that we saved are now demanding and putting difficulties, as those budget deficits are those that we incurred to save those who now demand budget cuts. What a paradox.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "UK news", "Greece", "Spain", "Norway", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Financial sector", "Europe", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Britain, Greece, Spain and Norway tell markets: growth, not cuts"},{"date": "2010-02-17T21:08:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Britain's exposure to the financial turmoil sweeping through southern European economies could be far greater than previously thought, according to data seen by the Guardian.Despite relief that Britain's decision to stay out of the euro has avoided the kind of budgetary crisis brewing in Mediterranean nations, figures showing that UK sales to Spain, Britain's seventh-largest trading partner, plunged by 31% to \u00a37.74bn (\u20ac8.92bn) in 2009, reveal how exposed are the balance sheets of some of the UK's biggest companies.Top-selling brands such as Vodafone, Burberry and British Airways are suffering from Spain's shrinking economy \u2013 which accounts for twice as many UK exports than China.Barclays is also suffering from low savings and lack of investments. In a rare piece of bad news from the bank yesterday, it said that its impairment charges in global retail and commercial banking across western Europe rose \u00a3370m to \u00a3667m, largely driven by losses in Spanish commercial property, construction and small business loans.With four million \u2013 almost 20% of the workforce \u2013 unemployed, Spaniards are cutting down on their spending. This trend includes those who have a job and who fear that they may lose it.Consumers are leaving bills unpaid, forcing companies such as Vodafone to sell lists of unpaid accounts to businesses that specialise in recovering cash. The phone giant recently reported a 6.8% sales decline in Spain, where it generates an annual \u00a31.3bn of service revenues \u2013 the third-largest market after Germany and Italy.The business of recovering money has grown so popular in Spain that it advertises in top venues such as FC Barcelona's football stadium, grabbing millions of TV viewers. Even Barcelona football club is tightening its belt. It has put on hold a multimillion-pound redevelopment project of its 100,000-capacity Camp Nou stadium, a project assigned to British architect Norman Foster.London-based Diageo, maker of brands such as Smirnoff and Baileys which are popular in Spain, is suffering from the new habits in a country that has traditionally entertained more outside the home than inside. Now this has changed, people are going out less, and while at home, local and cheaper beer is replacing spirits and wine.\"The challenging macro-economic environment continued to shape Diageo's performance in Iberia with reduced on-trade consumption [in bars and pubs] and down-trading to value brands in the off-trade [supermarkets, shops],\" the company said recently.Spain and Portugal account for only about 4.5% of Diageo's net sales, although the company blamed the falls in Spain, as well as Ireland and eastern Europe, for being the main reason for its overall sales decline in Europe.Spain is one of Diageo's strongest markets for products such as Baileys, which is often served along with dessert at weddings. Sales of famous names such as J&B fell in shops and supermarkets as consumers moved to cheaper brands. The company is now aiming to sell to customers at home, offering ready-to-serve cocktails such as the Cacique Mojito.As many as 700 British companies operate in Spain, employing about 100,000 people. Top exporters include British Petroleum, which has a network of more than 300 petrol stations around the country.The energy sector has been severely affected by the recession: UK energy sales to Spain more than halved to \u00a3575m (\u20ac663m) in 2009 from \u00a31.2bn in 2008, mostly driven by a plunge in oil exports, according to the data from the Spanish government.\"Spain's recession implies a big adjustment in the country's imports, despite the strength of the euro,\" said Jos\u00e9 Antonio Zamora, economic and trade councillor at the Spanish embassy in London. \"Energy products and capital goods have been particularly hit because of the fall in investment.\"Tourism companies have also suffered as the number of British visitors to Spain has plummeted to about 11 million from 17\u00a0million, due to the UK recession and the stronger euro, which makes trips to the Costas more expensive.Other big export names include British Imperial Tobacco \u2013 which bought Spain's cigarette maker Altadis \u2013 and Bupa, owner of the Sanitas private health insurance brand.UK-Spanish mergers have flourished over the past few years as the two economies opened up to competition in Europe. Spain's Iberdrola took over Scottish Power, while British Airways is now planning a tie-up with Spain's flagship carrier, Iberia.", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Global economy", "Retail industry", "Vodafone", "Burberry", "British Airways", "Barclays", "Barcelona", "Diageo", "BP", "Global recession", "Europe"], "title": "Pain in Spain could fall on British companies"},{"date": "2010-02-13T13:52:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Ferran Adri\u00e0, the Catalan chef celebrated for creating such dishes as turtle dove with blackberry caviar and duck foie gras candies, has decided to permanently close his famously experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain.Adri\u00e0 will replace the restaurant, which in its deconstruction of traditional dishes creates as much bewilderment among diners as pleasure, with an academy for advanced culinary study, according to the New York Times.He decided to permanently shut El Bulli, which has won three Michelin stars and was last year named the world's best restaurant for the fourth year by Restaurant magazine in Britain, because he and his partner, Juli Soler, had been losing \u20ac500,000 (\u00a3433,728) a year on the restaurant and his cooking workshop in Barcelona, the paper's food blog reported.He said he would use his earnings from consultancies and other businesses to establish his new culinary academy and to fund scholarships.The restaurant will reopen for six months in June and close for good in December 2011.Adri\u00e0 told an international culinary conference last month that the restaurant would temporarily shut its doors in 2012 and 2013. He said then that the closure was due to the difficulties of working 15 hours a day.Tables for the six-month season at El Bulli sell out in a day and two million people \u2013 including the world's great and good \u2013 have competed for a mere 8,000 settings in the past few years.", "tags": ["Ferran Adri\u00e0", "Chefs", "Restaurants", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Ferran Adri\u00e0 to close experimental El Bulli restaurant in Spain"},{"date": "2010-02-05T13:32:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain, which holds the European Union presidency, does not plan to follow Barack Obama's lead on pushing for a radical overhaul of banking guidelines.Proposals to limit proprietary trading \u2013 where banks invest their own funds, instead of on behalf of clients \u2013 or limit banks' activities in hedge or private equity funds cannot be put on the EU agenda \"just because there was some news last week,\" Spain's economy secretary, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Campa, told theguardian.com.The country, which does not have a big hedge fund community and whose banks have not made forays into proprietary trading, plans to follow European guidelines focusing on supervision as the main way to restore balance in the financial system, Campa said.\"We need to reassure that the main goal of the financial system has to be to channel credit towards the productive economy,\" he added.Although an agreement could be reached on financial supervision, each EU country sets its own fiscal policy, making it difficult for member countries to agree an overall tax policy on banks or bankers. Britain has already implemented plans to tax bonuses and increase taxes for high earners, a policy that France is also considering.Spanish banks, however, are more focused on commercial than investment banking, and the Bank of Spain already imposes stringent controls on their activities.", "tags": ["Banking", "Spain", "Obama administration", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Hedge funds", "Private equity", "Financial crisis", "European Union", "World news", "Business", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Spain rejects Obama plan for banking reform"},{"date": "2010-01-24T00:05:07Z", "country": "spain", "content": "After 20 years of living and travelling in Spain, I like to think I have a handle on the country and its people. Every so often, however, they can still spring a surprise.Like when Guillermo Ma\u00f1ana, a 70-year-old scholar, first told me about the 56km Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa. The Cam\u00edn Real, said Guillermo, was an ancient trail through the mountains of northern Spain, winding spectacularly among some of the grandest yet loneliest and least-known scenery in Europe. I had never heard of it, but if I was up for it, he said, he'd show me the secrets of this magical route.That was in May 2009. I had just met Guillermo through a friend in Oviedo, capital of the region of Asturias, where together we walked the awe-inspiring gorge of the river Cares in the Picos de Europa mountains. Since he retired from his profession as an anaesthetist, he has devoted his time and energy to his overriding passion: the mountain landscapes of his Asturian homeland.I was already familiar with his marvellous books, a series of lavish tomes documenting these landscapes in extraordinary detail. Now, he told me, he was preparing what would perhaps be his greatest work, a definitive study of the Cam\u00edn Real de la Mesa.For centuries the Cam\u00edn was one of the few points of contact between the provinces of Le\u00f3n and Asturias. It is essentially Roman in construction, but the route has been used for trade for 5,000 years, traversing a mountain range with peaks of 2,000m, reaching into some of Spain's most wildly beautiful and otherwise inaccessible landscapes.While livestock and gold mining were flourishing industries, the way held a strategic importance. But with the rise of modern roads it fell into disuse, and now it is barely known except by a few local farmers and a handful of keen walkers who are happy to stay off the beaten track.I was gripped by Guillermo's vision of this long and winding road, its historical importance and its near-obliteration at the hands of modern life. So we arranged a two-day trek on the section of the way that is accessible only to walkers, leaving out the northerly part which has been covered with asphalt, its beauty spoilt.Our route would take us from Torrestio, at the northern edge of the province of Le\u00f3n, to the village of Dolia in the county of Belmonte, Asturias \u2013 a distance of some 30km. At both ends of the route there would be simple places to stay, but the Cam\u00edn passes through no other villages, so the plan was to take food and a sleeping bag. In summer you can sleep under the stars or take a tent but, since it was autumn, we would bed down in one of the thatched shepherds' huts, called teitos.The night before our departure, my guide sent me a text: \"Weather terrible. Cold front. Thick sleeping bag. Waterproof clothing.\" I felt a shiver of dread.We met up on Sunday night in the mountain town of San Emiliano, on the Le\u00f3n side of the Cordillera Cant\u00e1brica, and dined on fried eggs and chorizo in the Hostal de Monta\u00f1a, a simple mountain hostel. Before dawn next day we drove to the hamlet of Torrestio, under a dark sky as cold and clear as spring water. At 7am there was a blanket of mist over the valley, but it was the right sort of mist, said Guillermo, the sort that would burn off quickly, leaving bright skies.We set off in the half-dark, heading up the Valle de las Partidas: the Valley of Departures. Up ahead, the first rays of sun were beautifying the squat grey peak of El Mu\u00f1\u00f3n.At the top of the valley was a fence marking the border between the two regions, Castilla y Le\u00f3n and Asturias. A concrete pillar gave the height above sea level: 1782m. To the north lay a wide stretch of pasture between mountains: the Mesa, or tableland, from which the Cam\u00edn takes its name. Brown cows with wide horns stood and stared as we passed, and the quiet was blurred only by waterfalls and cowbells.Further down the Mesa lay a scattering of stone huts, some round and low, others square, roofed with tiles or thatch. These hamlets, called bra\u00f1as, are the only human settlements in these mountains. Until 10 years ago 12 or 15 families might have spent the summer up there with the cows, subsisting on rye bread and onions, potatoes and lentils. It was a life of simplicity, hardship and closeness to nature, and has now almost entirely vanished.We stopped beside a waterfall for lunch \u2013 Asturian cheese, Serrano ham, black chocolate, and bread with olive oil. We drank fresh spring water, but also supped from a leather skin filled with Valdepe\u00f1as wine.A shepherd came by looking for a lost foal. A pair of binoculars hung around his neck, and by his side was a dog as big as a small pony. He'd been looking for the horse all yesterday, peering up the mountain through the rain and mist. But he feared the worst: last spring four or five of his horses had been taken by wolves. Not everyone is happy that, after many years in decline, the local wolf population is on the increase, and his dog wore a chain-mail collar bristling with metal spikes to protect him.As we walked Guillermo pointed out curious historical, natural or architectural sights along the way, ranging from a wide meadow called Xuego La Bola \u2013 where the shepherds came to play bowls \u2013 to a long trench that had been an eighth-century defensive wall during the reign of Alfonso ll, part of Catholic Spain's protection against the Muslim hordes who had already claimed most of the peninsula.The Cam\u00edn Real is little documented except by a handful of adepts including Guillermo, who has spent years mapping it and searching for its history in the great archives of Spain. Bronze-age burial mounds can be seen along the route, but it was the Romans, or rather, their slaves, who built a proper four-metre-wide path.By the third century AD it was the main access route between Le\u00f3n and Asturias, used primarily by Roman civil servants and gold dealers heading south from the mines of Belmonte. It remained an important commercial corridor, with all sorts of goods \u2013 wool and cloth, wheat and wine, sheep and salt fish \u2013 travelling back and forth. Impromptu toll stations were set up, levying a tax on \"brides and corpses\".Then in the early 19th century, a trunk road was built linking Le\u00f3n and Oviedo via the Pajares pass, and the Cam\u00edn fell into disuse. Parts of it were completely destroyed, especially at the northern end near Pravia, or became abandoned and overgrown. But it remained a secret door into the stunning wilderness of the Somiedo reserve.Roman road-building skills made the Cam\u00edn a broad path with a modest gradient. The walk is never gruelling, but the views are spectacular \u2013 grey-white mountains looming over deep valleys lined with beech, and gorges with patches of pasture clinging to shelf-like plateaus along their length. On the far horizon lay a line of palest blue: the Cantabrian sea. After eight hours, we stumbled into the shadow of a strange crag, La Pe\u00f1a Negra (the black rock), as dark and sinister as something out of The Hobbit.Our accommodation that night would have appealed to the Baggins family. Bra\u00f1a La Corra, a collection of seven roughly thatched stone teitos, were deserted but in reasonable condition, their maintenance funded by the Asturian government. Shepherds live there in summer, but walkers are free to use any left open, though they can't be reserved. The owner of one had offered Guillermo use of it if ever he were passing, so we laid out our sleeping rolls on its hay-strewn floor.From the terrace of our rustic lodging, 1,200m up, we could see the deep Valle de Saliencia below us and glacial lakes to the south, among a bristle of ash-grey peaks. The thick forests opposite are one of last remaining habitats of the Cantabrian bear, of which some 130 remain. Old-timers around these parts, said Guillermo as we ate our supper of sardines, bananas and almond turr\u00f3n (nougat) often tell tales of bears, how they came down to the villages, destroyed beehives, and were hunted ruthlessly.At 7pm, night fell like a stone and so did the temperature. Having no lights to read by, we cocooned ourselves in our sleeping bags, and Guillermo told me stories about the Cam\u00edn Real, its history and legends, of a convoy of 45 ox-drawn carts that carried alabaster quarried in Guadalajara on a six-week journey from Torrestio to Salas, to build a mausoleum for Archbishop Vald\u00e9s Salas \u2013 an important inquisitor who died in 1569. It remains the most important Renaissance monument in the principality, and on the Cam\u00edn itself.The next day we discovered the remains of a venta, a small stone shop in a wide green pasture called Piedra Jueves (Jupiter's altar), that once sold wine, and vinegar for the feet, to shepherds who had travelled for days to bring their sheep to the spot.We stood at the crest of the hill, surveying an Impressionist wash of grey-green broom, yellow birch, and a scarlet stipple of rowan berries. I looked in vain for a building, a road, or a human figure, but there were none. In August you might meet groups of walkers, cyclists or riders, but off-season the mountains slump back into solitude, and on the entire journey we saw only three mountain bikers, a couple of horsemen, and the occasional shepherd in a 4x4, checking on the livestock.The floor of the valley was speckled with bleached heaps of stone which, centuries before, had been dwellings. Guillermo, who had known the Cam\u00edn as a populated place 35 years ago, told me about a great livestock fair that had been held annually up here, 1,000m above sea level, where shepherd clans from Somiedo, Teverga and Belmonte had met up to party.The road itself has fallen into rui, too, and been further damaged by occasional four-wheel drive vehicles and quad bikes.\"Do you see now what jewels we have, and what a state they're in?\" Guillermo said bitterly, pointing to a potholed and muddied section. \"It should be a national monument.\"At Cueiro the Cam\u00edn diverges, east towards Oviedo (the Cam\u00edn Franc\u00e9s) or north to Llanera and Gij\u00f3n. We struck north, passing a large former venta, now a barn, ripe for conversion into a simple B&B for walkers unwilling to sleep on a floor covered with hay. I peered through the window of the venta's derelict chapel. The altar was piled with old whisky bottles.The village of Dolia was pretty and bucolic, snoozing amid hazel woods, but the asphalt underfoot and the power lines overhead came as a shock after our three days in the wilderness. For when the tarmac begins, the spell of the Cam\u00edn Real starts to wane. We had covered three-quarters of the 40km that can still be walked. The last quarter, where it pushes into the 21st century world of petrol stations and builders' merchants, has lost its mystery. We called a taxi and took a last draught of Valdepe\u00f1as from the wineskin.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel", "Camping holidays", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Secrets of Spain revealed on a road less travelled"},{"date": "2010-01-08T19:20:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Spain delivered a divisive call today for more common economic policy-making across Europe, demanding a \"qualitative leap\" in the common economic governance of the EU, \"binding\" targets and penalties for laggards, and more powers for the European Commission in policing the proposed new regime.Launching Madrid's six-month rotating presidency of the EU which began on New Year's Day, Elena Salgado, the economics and finance minister, said the financial crisis and ensuing recession had wrought a seachange in European governments' attitudes to pooling economic policy-making.\"The French position is very similar [to Spain's] and [is shared] also in many other countries,\" she said. \"The EU has to reinforce the coordination of its economic policies.\"Herman Van Rompuy, the EU's new permanent council president, has called a special economic summit for next month in Brussels after warning in his first speech this week that much of western Europe faces the prospect of \"de-industrialisation\" coming out of the recession.In Madrid today he appeared to give tacit support to the Spanish pan-European drive, arguing that a series of recent events would be seen as gamechangers, spurring the EU to converge in order to compete.The \"European way of life\", he said, was imperilled by the prospect of protracted low structural growth, while the financial crisis and recession as well as the failure of Copenhagen climate talks had shown how the balance of global power was tilting away from Europe which had been put on the defensive.Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Spain's socialist prime minister, made clear that he would seek to exploit the instruments of the EU's new Lisbon Treaty to join President Nicolas Sarkozy of France in pushing for contentious Europe-wide spending, investment, and tax policies.Zapatero said he wanted next month's summit to draw up a 10-year plan for compulsory EU economic policies and that there could be sanctions or \"corrective action\" against member states who do not comply.While Spanish officials declined to specify exactly how and in what areas economic policy-making should converge, Salgado emphasised energy policy, saying that the EU should speak with \"one voice\" when negotiating energy deals with third countries such as Russia.This could mean vesting authority in the European Commission to negotiate on energy similar to the powers it enjoys in negotiating trade issues with the rest of the world on behalf of the 27 EU states.\"We are convinced it is a good thing to have a European economic policy. The Lisbon Treaty allows more coordination. We should make sure to give the Commission new powers,\" Zapatero said.Salgado indicated that the eurogroup of the 16 EU members using the single currency could act as pioneer in forging ahead with common policies and she and the prime minister also voiced support for regular summits of the eurozone countries, an initiative first launched by Sarkozy 18 months ago and vehemently opposed by Gordon Brown.The Spanish moves would also be strongly opposed by a UK conservative government under David Cameron and similar French-led campaigning over the years has been swatted aside by Germany which fears political interference in the operations of the European Central Bank.Van Rompuy, however, indicated that events could be conspiring in the integrationists' favour and Zapatero said that a new \"dialogue\" should be inaugurated between the ECB and the \"European Council\" of national government chiefs.Earlier campaigns, such as the \"Lisbon Strategy\" aimed at making the EU the most competitive economy in the world by this year, had failed because commitments were merely rhetorical rather than mandatory, Zapatero said.\"It is absolutely necessary for the 2020 economic strategy... to take on a new nature, a binding nature.\"Asked whether laggards could forfeit EU budget payments, he said: \"This is something we are going to put on the table...Our main aim is to introduce a qualitative leap in our economic union by means of new common policies.\"", "tags": ["Economics", "Spain", "European Union", "European Central Bank", "European commission", "Conservatives", "Europe"], "title": "Spain calls for a binding EU economic strategy"},{"date": "2010-01-08T17:35:33Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain launched a campaign for a Europe-wide system of restraint orders aimed at curbing violence against women, calling for crime statistics to be reconfigured to highlight gender violence and for EU legislation offering protection to battered women across national borders.Opening Madrid's six-month rotating presidency of the EU and seeking to build on its progressive governance agenda, Alfredo Rubalcaba, the interior minister, called for a new approach to the problem, for special police units dealing with battered women, and for special treatment of the issues by European judiciaries.In Brussels yesterday Spanish officials, supported by officials from 11 of the 27 EU member states, initiated draft legislation on a European protection order which would, if it became law, mean that a woman protected from an abusive and violent male by a police restraint order in any EU country would enjoy the same protection across all member states. The initiative is supported by countries from Bulgaria to Finland. The list of backers includes France and Italy, though so far neither Britain nor Germany.\"There is an EU-wide consensus on the need for this protection order,\" said Mar\u00eda Teresa Fern\u00e1ndez de la Vega, the deputy prime minister. \"But it is technically difficult.\"Spanish officials admitted they may fail because of the problems of reconciling different legal and administrative systems across the EU.\"It's not easy,\" said Rubalcaba. \"I'm not sure we'll be able to develop a joint restraining order within six months.\"But while officials called for a new system of collating and comparing statistics on violence against women across the EU, Rubalcaba urged much greater police co-ordination on the issue and complained that European police, justice, and home affairs officials never discussed the problem of sexual violence.He pointed out that he had been attending EU councils of police and justice ministers for more than three years. \"We have never ever specifically discussed gender violence. We've never exchanged experiences and views on this.\"He denied all suggestions that this might be because the meetings were dominated by male officials and politicians and also emphasised his disagreement with notions that women might suffer disproportionately from violent male conduct in the southern Mediterranean countries of the EU.\"It's a human problem we share whether we live in the south or the north,\" he said. \"I don't think being a man reduces your sensitivity to this problem.\"It is unclear what kind of impact the protection order might have. Officials admitted that extending protection across national borders would affect at best a small minority of victims.\"Even if only one victim is protected, it's worth it,\" said Cristina Gallach, a Spanish EU presidency spokeswoman. \"It's the minority that deserves protection.\"Different European systems use different methods and instruments to try to deal with the issue, ranging from magistrates to social services to police units, meaning that standardising the practices is more of a technical than a substantive problem, according to the Spanish, who are pushing equality of the sexes as a theme of their EU presidency.If the campaign to legislate for battered women fails, there are moves afoot aimed at establishing an \"observatory\" for gathering and monitoring sexual violence across the EU, perhaps building on the work of a European human rights agency based in Vienna.Officials pointed out that if a woman is murdered by her husband, in most systems the crime will be catalogued under the murder statistics and will not surface in the gender violence ledgers.", "tags": ["Spain", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain calls for Europe-wide protection for battered women"},{"date": "2010-06-05T23:01:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A bull ring in a big Spanish city on a weekend afternoon: not a place for faint hearts, nor for anyone with ethical qualms about what they are here to see. The plaza is packed to the rafters; there are elderly couples and groups of young women, families, a few teenagers. Imagine a cross between a baseball game, a Roman circus, and a sell-out concert by some X Factor idol. All is noise, heat and shouting and garish colours; a wind band plays Spanish bullfight paso dobles.Nothing about this scene has changed, in essence, since Hemingway, Orson Welles and Ava Gardner pitched up in Pamplona to sit in the front row and chomp on fat cigars. Out on the circle of sand, a vast open-air theatre, still strut the men in their black winged caps, their neat black slippers, their sparkly traje de luces (\"suit of lights\"), tighter on their taut bodies than seems either plausible or advisable, and their thick capes of DayGlo violet on one side and canary-yellow on the other.Even the action, when it happens, seems archaic, timeworn, stuck in a groove of tradition. Out of a gate comes a large black bull moving at great speed, a thick-set beast weighing half a ton. The men in the spangly suits move in, taking the bull around the ring, tiring him out. The banderilleros do their grim business, planting coloured spikes in the bull's back, making the blood stream down its sides. But the torero is the star the public wants to see. He wields the red cape, the bull following it this way and that, creating an effect almost of intimacy as 500 kilos of horned fury brushes past his body. In an unguarded moment, the torero is caught off balance and the bull tosses him on its horns like a rag doll. The crowd screams as the torero staggers to his feet. There is dark blood running down his leg, staining the rich embroidery.In a world that is bent on putting \"reality\" in inverted commas, there are few spectacles more viscerally immediate than this. There is plenty of brutality and death on our computer screens, but this live gore-fest is powerfully shocking to sensibilities numbed by virtual horror.Ten years into the 21st century, it seems extraordinary that a phenomenon like this still has a place at the cultural heart of a modern European nation. There is no underestimating the staying power of a spectacle that some would say forms part of the Spanish national DNA. Yet even in this most tradition-addicted society, the tectonic plates of custom are gradually shifting, and public opinion over the corrida de toros is polarised as never before. On one hand, the Spanish anti-bullfight movement, virtually non-existent 20 years ago, has made huge inroads into a society for whom the notion of animal rights was until recently a puzzlingly alien concept. A proposal is currently going through the Catalan parliament which, if and when it is finally approved this summer, will abolish the corrida once and for all in the region. On the other hand, the news value of the corrida has taken a surprising leap in the past decade, thanks mainly to matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s \u2013 front-page news across the world when he was nearly gored to death in Mexico in April, requiring 17 pints of blood after a bull called Navegante ripped a 15cm hole in his thigh. Not for decades has a matador captured the imagination of bullfight fans like this enigmatic and reclusive man, acclaimed as the saviour of bullfighting for the new dose of glamour he has brought to this most controversial and, some say, anachronistic of sports.For years the bullfight was an aspect of Spanish culture that admitted no debate: it was beyond discussion, immutable and inscrutable, and if the callow expatriate felt there was something not quite right about the corrida, he would be wise to keep his opinions to himself. But a groundswell is forming. In the past few years, I have begun to witness the previously unthinkable in my adopted home country: heated debates around the dinner table at which, remarkably, a majority of the (Spanish) guests say they have serious reservations about a spectacle that mistreats animals for our viewing pleasure. Pop stars and actors are daring to confess the formerly inadmissible \u2013 that the corrida de toros bores and/or disgusts them. Actors Fernando Tejero, Rossy de Palma, singers Alaska and Amparanoia, fashion designer David Delfin and Barcelona footballer Carles Puyol have all come out of the antitaurino closet. Flamenco/hip-hop group Ojos de Brujo are well-known \"antis\" who last month gave a benefit concert in Barcelona in favour of abolition. Though King Juan Carlos is known to be an aficionado, Queen Sofia recently revealed a royal discrepancy: she is against the bullfight. \"Making a bull suffer in the plaza for the public's enjoyment while a few people do business? Let them do what they want, but I won't share it.\"Over 20 years of life in Spain, I have observed the ups and downs of this peculiar world, its fads and fashions, its comings and goings of newsworthiness. Fifteen years ago, for example, the biggest story was Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, who wowed the adolescent girls like a Spanish Peter Andre and once made history by performing a bullfight for a strictly all-female audience. (\"The only balls in the ring have got to be mine and the bull's,\" he joked.) Jesul\u00edn is (or was, until he aged and calmed down) a clown prince whose performances were pure Benny Hill: at one I went to, the arena was strewn with flowers, condoms, teddy bears and pairs of knickers that the torero would occasionally snatch from the sand and hold to his face while the bull stood panting before him.In 1936, Federico Garc\u00eda Lorca described the bullfight as \"probably Spain's greatest poetic and life-sustaining wealth... the most cultured fiesta anywhere in the world\". The word \"fiesta\" in this context means something more than party. The world of the bullfight likes to refer to itself grandiloquently as the fiesta nacional \u2013 as though in a land of hundreds of thousands of fiestas, this is the one big celebration all Spaniards can share in. Right up until the turn of the 21st century, to be a bullfight objector was to be stigmatised as lily-livered and unpatriotic. Antonio Moreno, co-ordinator of the Colectivo Andaluz Contra el Maltrato Animal (Andalucian Collective Against Animal Abuse), remembers how, not all that long ago, anyone speaking badly of the bullfight in a public bar risked been thrown into the street. Within the ranks of the pros, detractors and their opinions were batted away with a casual scorn tinged with both xenophobia and sexism: Andr\u00e9s Amor\u00f3s, doyen of bullfight theoreticians and author of the bulls-as-culture tome Toros y Cultura (1987), dismisses the antitaurinos as \"horrified English spinsters\".Nowadays the opposition is not so easily caricatured \u2013 mainly because support for the \"anti\" cause is no longer marginal. Polls suggest that approximately 70% of Spaniards are uninterested in the corrida, if not actively opposed to it. Pressure groups have sprung up by the dozen, ranging from animal welfare associations such as ADDA (Asociaci\u00f3n Defensa Derechos Animal) and the CAS (Anti-Bullfighting Committee), to political parties, Facebook pages and proto-anarchist cells. Many of these groups take their inspiration from the animal rights movement in the US and UK, with ecology and veganism part of the ideological mix.The antitaurino movement is increasingly vociferous, dynamic and committed. Barely a weekend goes by during the bullfight season without a demonstration outside some city bullring, the protesters daubed with blood and wielding banners with the slogan \"Tortura, ni Arte ni Cultura\". The antis are wised-up technologically and make good use of the internet (compare the creakily archaic bullfight industry, which continues to function more or less as if the world wide web had never been invented). They are more than willing to take long journeys by rented coach across Spain in search of barbaric bull-based fiestas at which to make their presence felt. In Coria, in the western region of Extremadura, the bull runs at the end of June traditionally featured an \"entertainment\" in which coloured darts were lobbed at the bull. Last year a group of antis was instrumental in bringing about a municipal ban on this practice. Another barbaric bull-based fiesta is the Toro de la Vega in Tordesillas, near Valladolid, which has become a touchstone for the fast-growing Spanish animal rights movement \u2013 for obvious reasons. Each September, a fighting bull is taken into the countryside by townsfolk on horseback and stabbed to death with long lances. This bloody and disturbing ritual engenders annual confrontations between antis from across the country and locals who passionately defend the heritage value of the fiesta.The protest movement is notably stronger in the north and east, where bull culture is much more rarefied. Of all the Spanish \"autonomous communities\" it is Catalonia that has become the solar plexus of the antitaurino cause. For Catalan nationalists like Iniciativa per Catalunya, the party shepherding the ban through the Catalan Parliament, bullfighting is political: a 'foreign' custom with no place on Catalan soil. It suits them, therefore, to claim that Catalonia has no real tradition of corrida de toros. In fact this is a piece of bad faith. The curses de braus (Catalan for bullfights) in the province of Tarragona are still enormously popular, whatever Barcelona sophisticates might think. Time was when Barcelona itself was one of Spain's major bullfighting centres, with three rings including Las Arenas (now a shopping centre) and the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the Beatles performed in 1967. Nonetheless, if the Initiativa Legislativa Popular (ILP) becomes law as expected, the antis will have scored the triumph denied them in more recalcitrant parts of the country.There is a sense in Spain of a society taking sides, manning the barricades of an issue that has polarised Spanish opinion more widely than ever. The imminent ban in Catalonia has been a hot topic in the bars of Spain for at least the past 12 months. And then there is the other crucial factor: the rise to fame of the matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Rom\u00e1n Mart\u00edn. When he burst on to the scene in the late 1990s, the then bullfight critic of El Pa\u00eds, Joaquin Vidal, described Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s in ecstatic terms as the rebirth of a spectacle that had fallen into decadence and dullness. The corrida Vidal witnessed at Las Ventas on a May day in 1997 was nothing less, he wrote, than the \"recovery of the eternal bullfight, the happy reencounter with the greatness of the art of bullfighting. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has arrived, and with him, there is a before and after in the fiesta.\"It is hard to overemphasise the galvanising effect of this man and his art, if that is what it is, on the introverted world of the bullfight. The hardcore of serious aficionados, of which there are as few as in, say, the world of opera, have acclaimed him for the classical perfection of his movements with the cape, which recover classic pasos (movements) such as the manoletina and gaonera. His statuesque posture is admired almost as much as his bravery. Elegance, sobriety, serenity are words commonly used to describe his style. One writer describes his control of space and time in the ring, praising his \"cadence, harmony, calm, naturalness\". What everyone notices, critics and public, is the way he places himself with regard to the bull as it passes \u2013 so close that the horns literally graze the fabric of his suit.This extraordinary daring, combined with a certain austerity and seriousness, have led Tom\u00e1s to be placed in the direct lineage of two great historical figures of the bullfighting past, Juan Belmonte and Manolete. As the commentator and retired bullfighter Juan Posada has noted, \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s practises a torero based on basic and classical principles. His merit resides in the way he takes advantage of the situation. He lets the bulls arrive. In our day, he is the torero who comes closest to the almost impossible orthodoxy we dream of. We needed a torero like this, a salutary lesson putting an end to the monotony.\"Even non-bullfight fans have been moved by his performance. Catalan actor Ram\u00f3n Fontser\u00e8, who might have been thought to fit the role of antitaurino to a T, emerged from one of Tom\u00e1s's fights in a dazed state, comparing the bullfighter to Nijinsky. \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s looked to me like a reed rocked by the wind in the centre of the plaza. A miracle, right on the line separating glory from tragedy. I'm not a taurino, but what I've just seen has left me deeply impressed.\"As for Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s the man, his character has elements of both reactionary and rebel, conservative and iconoclast. If his is a revolution, it will not be televised: Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s will not allow his corridas to be broadcast and never gives interviews, creating a media vacuum which, as Leonardo Anselmi of anti-bullfight campaigners Plataforma Prou points out, only serves to swell the cloud of myth already surrounding him. He appears to believe that modern media life is rubbish. \"We live in a very superficial age, full of lies. Television interviews are the bane of my profession,\" he says. Modesty bordering on self-effacement is his default mode. On one of the rare occasions he agreed to talk to the press, his main impulse was to downplay the scale of his impact on the scene. \"People say I'm revolutionising the bullfight, but I'm not sure. I can only say that I try to do things the way I feel them. In the old-fashioned way, with a certain purity, as they've always been done in this world.\"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has little in common with other toreros \u2013 neither with the vulgar and crowd-pleasing Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, nor with well-born fashion-plates like Cayetano Rivera, who models for Armani. He is neither devoutly Catholic nor stridently rightwing \u2013 both par for the course in bullfight circles \u2013 and steers well clear of the permanently hungry, gaping maw that is the Spanish celebrity circuit. His friends are intellectuals and artists like actor Albert Boadella, guitarist Vicente Amigo, singers Joaqu\u00edn Sabina and Joan Manuel Serrat. Most bullfighters would rather live in the countryside amid livestock and country society; not him. Away from the ring, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s lives a quiet life with his girlfriend, Isabel, in the tacky tourist town of Estepona \u2013 in its distance from convention, a statement of sorts. Paparazzi images on the web show him strolling on the prom, chewing bubblegum.Few beyond his closest circle know him at all. One who does, the bullfight writer and biographer Carlos Abella, describes him as \"serious, respectful, prudent, educated, discreet, shy, but warm up-close, affable\u2026 He doesn't want to know anything about fame. He dislikes going to the tributes and he is uncomfortable with the recognition of his success. He accepts it, but he prefers to be alone, fishing, walking his dogs, driving his fast cars\u2026\"Despite the generally hostile climate surrounding his profession, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has been making friends in unlikely places. German photographer Anya Bartels-Suermondt has just published a book (Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: Serenata de un Amanecer \u2013 \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: a Dawn Serenade\") documenting her 14-year study of man and matador, in images as lushly beautiful as they are frequently terrifying. The textures and colours of the bullfight, from the \"suits of lights\" to the curdling pools of blood on sand, have rarely been depicted with such obvious admiration. Bartels-Suermondt confesses that her own family, not to mention her German peers, do not generally share her love of the bullfight. Yet, after years of close observation, she believes the corrida de toros is a unique form of culture based on the \"artistic union of man and animal\". \"I respect the opinions of those who don't enjoy the spectacle \u2013 but the bullfight is part of world culture, and also deserves our respect. Abolition would be a tragic blow to our democratic right of self-expression.\" As for her famous subject, she believes him to be a profoundly gifted artist. \"The first time you watch him you realise that here is something special. He is more than a torero \u2013 he has an aura about him, a charisma, and there is an absolute beauty about what he does. He is extraordinary in every sense.\"It is one of the enormous paradoxes of this man that he has galvanised the anti-bullfight cause as much as the world of the bullfight itself. In 2002, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s retired from the profession, needing, he said, time to think. In June 2007, he returned to the ring, choosing as the venue for his messianic comeback the Plaza de Toros Monumental in Barcelona.The matador's choice of city and plaza was highly significant: for years the huge Monumental bullring had been struggling economically, its downmarket bullfights playing to tourists bussed in from the Costa Brava. Catalan bullfight culture was fading away. At a stroke, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s gave both the Monumental and his local fan base a much-needed shot in the arm. The great and the good of Barcelona society rammed the stalls. Touts demanded up to \u00a43,000 a ticket. The bullfight critics \u2013 whose reports appear in the arts pages of the Spanish papers \u2013 were out in force: Jos\u00e9 Luis Vadillo of El Mundo spoke of \"apotheosis, communion with the public\", and a plaza that had become an \"altar\". El Pais \u2013 notionally a leftwing paper \u2013 decided that the basis of Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's art was \"a poetic and mysterious silence, somewhat hermetic, easier to perceive than to understand\u2026 a silence that makes you shudder, because it doesn't shirk from the silence surrounding death\". The torero duly won three \"ears\" (the prized trophy of the corrida) and was carried from the ring on the shoulders of the multitude amid wild scenes of jubilation.But, as it happens, his return fight turned out to be a watershed as much for the antis as for the pros. Leonardo Anselmi, of the Plataforma Prou, prime mover behind the Catalan bill, describes how the antis' legal masterplan was conceived that day. \"It was all thanks to Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s,\" he laughs, revealing a nice sense of irony. \"When Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s reappeared in the Monumental, until that moment our movement had been a protest movement. Demonstrations, banners, the usual thing. At our first demo in Barcelona, there'd been 300 of us. But the reappearance of this man got us pretty angry, because we realised that the bullfight world was taking the mickey out of us. What had been tradition was now just business. And that's when we started to get political.\"That day in Barcelona saw the biggest anti-bullfight demonstration of all time: 5,000 people marched from the Ramblas to the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the bullfight world was busy acclaiming its conquering hero. From here it was but a step to the massive campaign of signatures \u2013 a total of 180,000 were collected across Catalonia \u2013 which eventually led to a parliamentary bill.Three years later, the battle lines are more clearly drawn than ever. Both pros and antis will be crossing their fingers this summer. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's horrific goring in Aguascalientes, Mexico had left a question mark over the rest of his appearances this year. But the torero has recovered from his wounds in record time \u2013 nothing short of a miracle, say his more devoted followers \u2013 and is said to be planning a spectacular reappearance. The date of this great event? 18 July \u2013 around the same time, say the antis, that the abolition bill is set to become law in Catalonia. The venue? The Plaza de Toros Monumental de Barcelona, scene of the matador's 2007 triumph and symbol of opposition to the fiesta nacional. Unless another bull has its way with him, it won't mean the end of the torero's career. But for the corrida de toros, it might just be the end of an era.", "tags": ["Bullfighting", "Spain", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Why bullfighting is making Spain see red"},{"date": "2010-06-05T23:01:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A bull ring in a big Spanish city on a weekend afternoon: not a place for faint hearts, nor for anyone with ethical qualms about what they are here to see. The plaza is packed to the rafters; there are elderly couples and groups of young women, families, a few teenagers. Imagine a cross between a baseball game, a Roman circus, and a sell-out concert by some X Factor idol. All is noise, heat and shouting and garish colours; a wind band plays Spanish bullfight paso dobles.Nothing about this scene has changed, in essence, since Hemingway, Orson Welles and Ava Gardner pitched up in Pamplona to sit in the front row and chomp on fat cigars. Out on the circle of sand, a vast open-air theatre, still strut the men in their black winged caps, their neat black slippers, their sparkly traje de luces (\"suit of lights\"), tighter on their taut bodies than seems either plausible or advisable, and their thick capes of DayGlo violet on one side and canary-yellow on the other.Even the action, when it happens, seems archaic, timeworn, stuck in a groove of tradition. Out of a gate comes a large black bull moving at great speed, a thick-set beast weighing half a ton. The men in the spangly suits move in, taking the bull around the ring, tiring him out. The banderilleros do their grim business, planting coloured spikes in the bull's back, making the blood stream down its sides. But the torero is the star the public wants to see. He wields the red cape, the bull following it this way and that, creating an effect almost of intimacy as 500 kilos of horned fury brushes past his body. In an unguarded moment, the torero is caught off balance and the bull tosses him on its horns like a rag doll. The crowd screams as the torero staggers to his feet. There is dark blood running down his leg, staining the rich embroidery.In a world that is bent on putting \"reality\" in inverted commas, there are few spectacles more viscerally immediate than this. There is plenty of brutality and death on our computer screens, but this live gore-fest is powerfully shocking to sensibilities numbed by virtual horror.Ten years into the 21st century, it seems extraordinary that a phenomenon like this still has a place at the cultural heart of a modern European nation. There is no underestimating the staying power of a spectacle that some would say forms part of the Spanish national DNA. Yet even in this most tradition-addicted society, the tectonic plates of custom are gradually shifting, and public opinion over the corrida de toros is polarised as never before. On one hand, the Spanish anti-bullfight movement, virtually non-existent 20 years ago, has made huge inroads into a society for whom the notion of animal rights was until recently a puzzlingly alien concept. A proposal is currently going through the Catalan parliament which, if and when it is finally approved this summer, will abolish the corrida once and for all in the region. On the other hand, the news value of the corrida has taken a surprising leap in the past decade, thanks mainly to matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s \u2013 front-page news across the world when he was nearly gored to death in Mexico in April, requiring 17 pints of blood after a bull called Navegante ripped a 15cm hole in his thigh. Not for decades has a matador captured the imagination of bullfight fans like this enigmatic and reclusive man, acclaimed as the saviour of bullfighting for the new dose of glamour he has brought to this most controversial and, some say, anachronistic of sports.For years the bullfight was an aspect of Spanish culture that admitted no debate: it was beyond discussion, immutable and inscrutable, and if the callow expatriate felt there was something not quite right about the corrida, he would be wise to keep his opinions to himself. But a groundswell is forming. In the past few years, I have begun to witness the previously unthinkable in my adopted home country: heated debates around the dinner table at which, remarkably, a majority of the (Spanish) guests say they have serious reservations about a spectacle that mistreats animals for our viewing pleasure. Pop stars and actors are daring to confess the formerly inadmissible \u2013 that the corrida de toros bores and/or disgusts them. Actors Fernando Tejero, Rossy de Palma, singers Alaska and Amparanoia, fashion designer David Delfin and Barcelona footballer Carles Puyol have all come out of the antitaurino closet. Flamenco/hip-hop group Ojos de Brujo are well-known \"antis\" who last month gave a benefit concert in Barcelona in favour of abolition. Though King Juan Carlos is known to be an aficionado, Queen Sofia recently revealed a royal discrepancy: she is against the bullfight. \"Making a bull suffer in the plaza for the public's enjoyment while a few people do business? Let them do what they want, but I won't share it.\"Over 20 years of life in Spain, I have observed the ups and downs of this peculiar world, its fads and fashions, its comings and goings of newsworthiness. Fifteen years ago, for example, the biggest story was Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, who wowed the adolescent girls like a Spanish Peter Andre and once made history by performing a bullfight for a strictly all-female audience. (\"The only balls in the ring have got to be mine and the bull's,\" he joked.) Jesul\u00edn is (or was, until he aged and calmed down) a clown prince whose performances were pure Benny Hill: at one I went to, the arena was strewn with flowers, condoms, teddy bears and pairs of knickers that the torero would occasionally snatch from the sand and hold to his face while the bull stood panting before him.In 1936, Federico Garc\u00eda Lorca described the bullfight as \"probably Spain's greatest poetic and life-sustaining wealth... the most cultured fiesta anywhere in the world\". The word \"fiesta\" in this context means something more than party. The world of the bullfight likes to refer to itself grandiloquently as the fiesta nacional \u2013 as though in a land of hundreds of thousands of fiestas, this is the one big celebration all Spaniards can share in. Right up until the turn of the 21st century, to be a bullfight objector was to be stigmatised as lily-livered and unpatriotic. Antonio Moreno, co-ordinator of the Colectivo Andaluz Contra el Maltrato Animal (Andalucian Collective Against Animal Abuse), remembers how, not all that long ago, anyone speaking badly of the bullfight in a public bar risked been thrown into the street. Within the ranks of the pros, detractors and their opinions were batted away with a casual scorn tinged with both xenophobia and sexism: Andr\u00e9s Amor\u00f3s, doyen of bullfight theoreticians and author of the bulls-as-culture tome Toros y Cultura (1987), dismisses the antitaurinos as \"horrified English spinsters\".Nowadays the opposition is not so easily caricatured \u2013 mainly because support for the \"anti\" cause is no longer marginal. Polls suggest that approximately 70% of Spaniards are uninterested in the corrida, if not actively opposed to it. Pressure groups have sprung up by the dozen, ranging from animal welfare associations such as ADDA (Asociaci\u00f3n Defensa Derechos Animal) and the CAS (Anti-Bullfighting Committee), to political parties, Facebook pages and proto-anarchist cells. Many of these groups take their inspiration from the animal rights movement in the US and UK, with ecology and veganism part of the ideological mix.The antitaurino movement is increasingly vociferous, dynamic and committed. Barely a weekend goes by during the bullfight season without a demonstration outside some city bullring, the protesters daubed with blood and wielding banners with the slogan \"Tortura, ni Arte ni Cultura\". The antis are wised-up technologically and make good use of the internet (compare the creakily archaic bullfight industry, which continues to function more or less as if the world wide web had never been invented). They are more than willing to take long journeys by rented coach across Spain in search of barbaric bull-based fiestas at which to make their presence felt. In Coria, in the western region of Extremadura, the bull runs at the end of June traditionally featured an \"entertainment\" in which coloured darts were lobbed at the bull. Last year a group of antis was instrumental in bringing about a municipal ban on this practice. Another barbaric bull-based fiesta is the Toro de la Vega in Tordesillas, near Valladolid, which has become a touchstone for the fast-growing Spanish animal rights movement \u2013 for obvious reasons. Each September, a fighting bull is taken into the countryside by townsfolk on horseback and stabbed to death with long lances. This bloody and disturbing ritual engenders annual confrontations between antis from across the country and locals who passionately defend the heritage value of the fiesta.The protest movement is notably stronger in the north and east, where bull culture is much more rarefied. Of all the Spanish \"autonomous communities\" it is Catalonia that has become the solar plexus of the antitaurino cause. For Catalan nationalists like Iniciativa per Catalunya, the party shepherding the ban through the Catalan Parliament, bullfighting is political: a 'foreign' custom with no place on Catalan soil. It suits them, therefore, to claim that Catalonia has no real tradition of corrida de toros. In fact this is a piece of bad faith. The curses de braus (Catalan for bullfights) in the province of Tarragona are still enormously popular, whatever Barcelona sophisticates might think. Time was when Barcelona itself was one of Spain's major bullfighting centres, with three rings including Las Arenas (now a shopping centre) and the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the Beatles performed in 1967. Nonetheless, if the Initiativa Legislativa Popular (ILP) becomes law as expected, the antis will have scored the triumph denied them in more recalcitrant parts of the country.There is a sense in Spain of a society taking sides, manning the barricades of an issue that has polarised Spanish opinion more widely than ever. The imminent ban in Catalonia has been a hot topic in the bars of Spain for at least the past 12 months. And then there is the other crucial factor: the rise to fame of the matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Rom\u00e1n Mart\u00edn. When he burst on to the scene in the late 1990s, the then bullfight critic of El Pa\u00eds, Joaquin Vidal, described Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s in ecstatic terms as the rebirth of a spectacle that had fallen into decadence and dullness. The corrida Vidal witnessed at Las Ventas on a May day in 1997 was nothing less, he wrote, than the \"recovery of the eternal bullfight, the happy reencounter with the greatness of the art of bullfighting. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has arrived, and with him, there is a before and after in the fiesta.\"It is hard to overemphasise the galvanising effect of this man and his art, if that is what it is, on the introverted world of the bullfight. The hardcore of serious aficionados, of which there are as few as in, say, the world of opera, have acclaimed him for the classical perfection of his movements with the cape, which recover classic pasos (movements) such as the manoletina and gaonera. His statuesque posture is admired almost as much as his bravery. Elegance, sobriety, serenity are words commonly used to describe his style. One writer describes his control of space and time in the ring, praising his \"cadence, harmony, calm, naturalness\". What everyone notices, critics and public, is the way he places himself with regard to the bull as it passes \u2013 so close that the horns literally graze the fabric of his suit.This extraordinary daring, combined with a certain austerity and seriousness, have led Tom\u00e1s to be placed in the direct lineage of two great historical figures of the bullfighting past, Juan Belmonte and Manolete. As the commentator and retired bullfighter Juan Posada has noted, \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s practises a torero based on basic and classical principles. His merit resides in the way he takes advantage of the situation. He lets the bulls arrive. In our day, he is the torero who comes closest to the almost impossible orthodoxy we dream of. We needed a torero like this, a salutary lesson putting an end to the monotony.\"Even non-bullfight fans have been moved by his performance. Catalan actor Ram\u00f3n Fontser\u00e8, who might have been thought to fit the role of antitaurino to a T, emerged from one of Tom\u00e1s's fights in a dazed state, comparing the bullfighter to Nijinsky. \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s looked to me like a reed rocked by the wind in the centre of the plaza. A miracle, right on the line separating glory from tragedy. I'm not a taurino, but what I've just seen has left me deeply impressed.\"As for Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s the man, his character has elements of both reactionary and rebel, conservative and iconoclast. If his is a revolution, it will not be televised: Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s will not allow his corridas to be broadcast and never gives interviews, creating a media vacuum which, as Leonardo Anselmi of anti-bullfight campaigners Plataforma Prou points out, only serves to swell the cloud of myth already surrounding him. He appears to believe that modern media life is rubbish. \"We live in a very superficial age, full of lies. Television interviews are the bane of my profession,\" he says. Modesty bordering on self-effacement is his default mode. On one of the rare occasions he agreed to talk to the press, his main impulse was to downplay the scale of his impact on the scene. \"People say I'm revolutionising the bullfight, but I'm not sure. I can only say that I try to do things the way I feel them. In the old-fashioned way, with a certain purity, as they've always been done in this world.\"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has little in common with other toreros \u2013 neither with the vulgar and crowd-pleasing Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, nor with well-born fashion-plates like Cayetano Rivera, who models for Armani. He is neither devoutly Catholic nor stridently rightwing \u2013 both par for the course in bullfight circles \u2013 and steers well clear of the permanently hungry, gaping maw that is the Spanish celebrity circuit. His friends are intellectuals and artists like actor Albert Boadella, guitarist Vicente Amigo, singers Joaqu\u00edn Sabina and Joan Manuel Serrat. Most bullfighters would rather live in the countryside amid livestock and country society; not him. Away from the ring, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s lives a quiet life with his girlfriend, Isabel, in the tacky tourist town of Estepona \u2013 in its distance from convention, a statement of sorts. Paparazzi images on the web show him strolling on the prom, chewing bubblegum.Few beyond his closest circle know him at all. One who does, the bullfight writer and biographer Carlos Abella, describes him as \"serious, respectful, prudent, educated, discreet, shy, but warm up-close, affable\u2026 He doesn't want to know anything about fame. He dislikes going to the tributes and he is uncomfortable with the recognition of his success. He accepts it, but he prefers to be alone, fishing, walking his dogs, driving his fast cars\u2026\"Despite the generally hostile climate surrounding his profession, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has been making friends in unlikely places. German photographer Anya Bartels-Suermondt has just published a book (Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: Serenata de un Amanecer \u2013 \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: a Dawn Serenade\") documenting her 14-year study of man and matador, in images as lushly beautiful as they are frequently terrifying. The textures and colours of the bullfight, from the \"suits of lights\" to the curdling pools of blood on sand, have rarely been depicted with such obvious admiration. Bartels-Suermondt confesses that her own family, not to mention her German peers, do not generally share her love of the bullfight. Yet, after years of close observation, she believes the corrida de toros is a unique form of culture based on the \"artistic union of man and animal\". \"I respect the opinions of those who don't enjoy the spectacle \u2013 but the bullfight is part of world culture, and also deserves our respect. Abolition would be a tragic blow to our democratic right of self-expression.\" As for her famous subject, she believes him to be a profoundly gifted artist. \"The first time you watch him you realise that here is something special. He is more than a torero \u2013 he has an aura about him, a charisma, and there is an absolute beauty about what he does. He is extraordinary in every sense.\"It is one of the enormous paradoxes of this man that he has galvanised the anti-bullfight cause as much as the world of the bullfight itself. In 2002, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s retired from the profession, needing, he said, time to think. In June 2007, he returned to the ring, choosing as the venue for his messianic comeback the Plaza de Toros Monumental in Barcelona.The matador's choice of city and plaza was highly significant: for years the huge Monumental bullring had been struggling economically, its downmarket bullfights playing to tourists bussed in from the Costa Brava. Catalan bullfight culture was fading away. At a stroke, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s gave both the Monumental and his local fan base a much-needed shot in the arm. The great and the good of Barcelona society rammed the stalls. Touts demanded up to \u00a43,000 a ticket. The bullfight critics \u2013 whose reports appear in the arts pages of the Spanish papers \u2013 were out in force: Jos\u00e9 Luis Vadillo of El Mundo spoke of \"apotheosis, communion with the public\", and a plaza that had become an \"altar\". El Pais \u2013 notionally a leftwing paper \u2013 decided that the basis of Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's art was \"a poetic and mysterious silence, somewhat hermetic, easier to perceive than to understand\u2026 a silence that makes you shudder, because it doesn't shirk from the silence surrounding death\". The torero duly won three \"ears\" (the prized trophy of the corrida) and was carried from the ring on the shoulders of the multitude amid wild scenes of jubilation.But, as it happens, his return fight turned out to be a watershed as much for the antis as for the pros. Leonardo Anselmi, of the Plataforma Prou, prime mover behind the Catalan bill, describes how the antis' legal masterplan was conceived that day. \"It was all thanks to Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s,\" he laughs, revealing a nice sense of irony. \"When Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s reappeared in the Monumental, until that moment our movement had been a protest movement. Demonstrations, banners, the usual thing. At our first demo in Barcelona, there'd been 300 of us. But the reappearance of this man got us pretty angry, because we realised that the bullfight world was taking the mickey out of us. What had been tradition was now just business. And that's when we started to get political.\"That day in Barcelona saw the biggest anti-bullfight demonstration of all time: 5,000 people marched from the Ramblas to the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the bullfight world was busy acclaiming its conquering hero. From here it was but a step to the massive campaign of signatures \u2013 a total of 180,000 were collected across Catalonia \u2013 which eventually led to a parliamentary bill.Three years later, the battle lines are more clearly drawn than ever. Both pros and antis will be crossing their fingers this summer. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's horrific goring in Aguascalientes, Mexico had left a question mark over the rest of his appearances this year. But the torero has recovered from his wounds in record time \u2013 nothing short of a miracle, say his more devoted followers \u2013 and is said to be planning a spectacular reappearance. The date of this great event? 18 July \u2013 around the same time, say the antis, that the abolition bill is set to become law in Catalonia. The venue? The Plaza de Toros Monumental de Barcelona, scene of the matador's 2007 triumph and symbol of opposition to the fiesta nacional. Unless another bull has its way with him, it won't mean the end of the torero's career. But for the corrida de toros, it might just be the end of an era.", "tags": ["Bullfighting", "Spain", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Why bullfighting is making Spain see red"},{"date": "2010-05-28T22:41:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Wall Street stocks slipped and the euro weakened against the dollar after Spain today lost its coveted AAA credit score from Fitch, the second ratings agency in a month to downgrade the country.As the Spanish government battled to push through \u20ac15bn (\u00a312.7bn) of spending cuts, Fitch cut its sovereign debt rating for the nation by a single notch from AAA to AA+. The move, which followed a similar downgrade by Standard & Poor's four weeks ago, fuelled fears of contagion throughout the eurozone.Fitch's analyst, Brian Coulton, said the challenges facing Spain in implementing austerity measures were behind the move: \"Despite government debt and associated interest costs remaining within the AAA range, Fitch anticipates the economic adjustment process will be more difficult and prolonged than for other economies with AAA-rated sovereign governments.\"In New York, the blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average slid lower on the downgrade, closing down 122 points to 10,136. The euro slipped by 0.8 cents against the dollar, ending at $1.2293, down from $1.32 a month ago. Economists said the development came as little surprise. A week ago, Spain's central bank was obliged to take control of a troubled regional savings bank, CajaSur, after a merger with a competitor fell apart.The Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, won a parliamentary vote by a wafer-thin margin of a single vote on Thursday to implement sweeping budget cuts, including 5% reductions to civil servants' pay. Unions have threatened a general strike over planned labour market reforms.Greece and Portugal have already had their credit ratings cut. Britain still has an AAA endorsement, although both Standard & Poor's and Moody's have made it clear they will be closely scrutinising the Cameron government's plans for debt reduction.Win Thin, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York, told Reuters: \"Spain is the 800-pound gorilla in the room. Greece and Portugal are small countries, but Spain is about five times their size with regards to GDP.\"Unemployment in Spain is running at 20% and the country's once booming housing market has suffered a US-style slump.\u2022 This article was amended on 3 June 2010. The original caption referred to President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, seen with vice-president Maria Teresa Fernandez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Rating agencies", "US economy", "Euro", "Business", "World news", "US news", "Euro", "Europe"], "title": "Euro falls as Spain suffers rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-06-05T23:01:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A bull ring in a big Spanish city on a weekend afternoon: not a place for faint hearts, nor for anyone with ethical qualms about what they are here to see. The plaza is packed to the rafters; there are elderly couples and groups of young women, families, a few teenagers. Imagine a cross between a baseball game, a Roman circus, and a sell-out concert by some X Factor idol. All is noise, heat and shouting and garish colours; a wind band plays Spanish bullfight paso dobles.Nothing about this scene has changed, in essence, since Hemingway, Orson Welles and Ava Gardner pitched up in Pamplona to sit in the front row and chomp on fat cigars. Out on the circle of sand, a vast open-air theatre, still strut the men in their black winged caps, their neat black slippers, their sparkly traje de luces (\"suit of lights\"), tighter on their taut bodies than seems either plausible or advisable, and their thick capes of DayGlo violet on one side and canary-yellow on the other.Even the action, when it happens, seems archaic, timeworn, stuck in a groove of tradition. Out of a gate comes a large black bull moving at great speed, a thick-set beast weighing half a ton. The men in the spangly suits move in, taking the bull around the ring, tiring him out. The banderilleros do their grim business, planting coloured spikes in the bull's back, making the blood stream down its sides. But the torero is the star the public wants to see. He wields the red cape, the bull following it this way and that, creating an effect almost of intimacy as 500 kilos of horned fury brushes past his body. In an unguarded moment, the torero is caught off balance and the bull tosses him on its horns like a rag doll. The crowd screams as the torero staggers to his feet. There is dark blood running down his leg, staining the rich embroidery.In a world that is bent on putting \"reality\" in inverted commas, there are few spectacles more viscerally immediate than this. There is plenty of brutality and death on our computer screens, but this live gore-fest is powerfully shocking to sensibilities numbed by virtual horror.Ten years into the 21st century, it seems extraordinary that a phenomenon like this still has a place at the cultural heart of a modern European nation. There is no underestimating the staying power of a spectacle that some would say forms part of the Spanish national DNA. Yet even in this most tradition-addicted society, the tectonic plates of custom are gradually shifting, and public opinion over the corrida de toros is polarised as never before. On one hand, the Spanish anti-bullfight movement, virtually non-existent 20 years ago, has made huge inroads into a society for whom the notion of animal rights was until recently a puzzlingly alien concept. A proposal is currently going through the Catalan parliament which, if and when it is finally approved this summer, will abolish the corrida once and for all in the region. On the other hand, the news value of the corrida has taken a surprising leap in the past decade, thanks mainly to matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s \u2013 front-page news across the world when he was nearly gored to death in Mexico in April, requiring 17 pints of blood after a bull called Navegante ripped a 15cm hole in his thigh. Not for decades has a matador captured the imagination of bullfight fans like this enigmatic and reclusive man, acclaimed as the saviour of bullfighting for the new dose of glamour he has brought to this most controversial and, some say, anachronistic of sports.For years the bullfight was an aspect of Spanish culture that admitted no debate: it was beyond discussion, immutable and inscrutable, and if the callow expatriate felt there was something not quite right about the corrida, he would be wise to keep his opinions to himself. But a groundswell is forming. In the past few years, I have begun to witness the previously unthinkable in my adopted home country: heated debates around the dinner table at which, remarkably, a majority of the (Spanish) guests say they have serious reservations about a spectacle that mistreats animals for our viewing pleasure. Pop stars and actors are daring to confess the formerly inadmissible \u2013 that the corrida de toros bores and/or disgusts them. Actors Fernando Tejero, Rossy de Palma, singers Alaska and Amparanoia, fashion designer David Delfin and Barcelona footballer Carles Puyol have all come out of the antitaurino closet. Flamenco/hip-hop group Ojos de Brujo are well-known \"antis\" who last month gave a benefit concert in Barcelona in favour of abolition. Though King Juan Carlos is known to be an aficionado, Queen Sofia recently revealed a royal discrepancy: she is against the bullfight. \"Making a bull suffer in the plaza for the public's enjoyment while a few people do business? Let them do what they want, but I won't share it.\"Over 20 years of life in Spain, I have observed the ups and downs of this peculiar world, its fads and fashions, its comings and goings of newsworthiness. Fifteen years ago, for example, the biggest story was Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, who wowed the adolescent girls like a Spanish Peter Andre and once made history by performing a bullfight for a strictly all-female audience. (\"The only balls in the ring have got to be mine and the bull's,\" he joked.) Jesul\u00edn is (or was, until he aged and calmed down) a clown prince whose performances were pure Benny Hill: at one I went to, the arena was strewn with flowers, condoms, teddy bears and pairs of knickers that the torero would occasionally snatch from the sand and hold to his face while the bull stood panting before him.In 1936, Federico Garc\u00eda Lorca described the bullfight as \"probably Spain's greatest poetic and life-sustaining wealth... the most cultured fiesta anywhere in the world\". The word \"fiesta\" in this context means something more than party. The world of the bullfight likes to refer to itself grandiloquently as the fiesta nacional \u2013 as though in a land of hundreds of thousands of fiestas, this is the one big celebration all Spaniards can share in. Right up until the turn of the 21st century, to be a bullfight objector was to be stigmatised as lily-livered and unpatriotic. Antonio Moreno, co-ordinator of the Colectivo Andaluz Contra el Maltrato Animal (Andalucian Collective Against Animal Abuse), remembers how, not all that long ago, anyone speaking badly of the bullfight in a public bar risked been thrown into the street. Within the ranks of the pros, detractors and their opinions were batted away with a casual scorn tinged with both xenophobia and sexism: Andr\u00e9s Amor\u00f3s, doyen of bullfight theoreticians and author of the bulls-as-culture tome Toros y Cultura (1987), dismisses the antitaurinos as \"horrified English spinsters\".Nowadays the opposition is not so easily caricatured \u2013 mainly because support for the \"anti\" cause is no longer marginal. Polls suggest that approximately 70% of Spaniards are uninterested in the corrida, if not actively opposed to it. Pressure groups have sprung up by the dozen, ranging from animal welfare associations such as ADDA (Asociaci\u00f3n Defensa Derechos Animal) and the CAS (Anti-Bullfighting Committee), to political parties, Facebook pages and proto-anarchist cells. Many of these groups take their inspiration from the animal rights movement in the US and UK, with ecology and veganism part of the ideological mix.The antitaurino movement is increasingly vociferous, dynamic and committed. Barely a weekend goes by during the bullfight season without a demonstration outside some city bullring, the protesters daubed with blood and wielding banners with the slogan \"Tortura, ni Arte ni Cultura\". The antis are wised-up technologically and make good use of the internet (compare the creakily archaic bullfight industry, which continues to function more or less as if the world wide web had never been invented). They are more than willing to take long journeys by rented coach across Spain in search of barbaric bull-based fiestas at which to make their presence felt. In Coria, in the western region of Extremadura, the bull runs at the end of June traditionally featured an \"entertainment\" in which coloured darts were lobbed at the bull. Last year a group of antis was instrumental in bringing about a municipal ban on this practice. Another barbaric bull-based fiesta is the Toro de la Vega in Tordesillas, near Valladolid, which has become a touchstone for the fast-growing Spanish animal rights movement \u2013 for obvious reasons. Each September, a fighting bull is taken into the countryside by townsfolk on horseback and stabbed to death with long lances. This bloody and disturbing ritual engenders annual confrontations between antis from across the country and locals who passionately defend the heritage value of the fiesta.The protest movement is notably stronger in the north and east, where bull culture is much more rarefied. Of all the Spanish \"autonomous communities\" it is Catalonia that has become the solar plexus of the antitaurino cause. For Catalan nationalists like Iniciativa per Catalunya, the party shepherding the ban through the Catalan Parliament, bullfighting is political: a 'foreign' custom with no place on Catalan soil. It suits them, therefore, to claim that Catalonia has no real tradition of corrida de toros. In fact this is a piece of bad faith. The curses de braus (Catalan for bullfights) in the province of Tarragona are still enormously popular, whatever Barcelona sophisticates might think. Time was when Barcelona itself was one of Spain's major bullfighting centres, with three rings including Las Arenas (now a shopping centre) and the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the Beatles performed in 1967. Nonetheless, if the Initiativa Legislativa Popular (ILP) becomes law as expected, the antis will have scored the triumph denied them in more recalcitrant parts of the country.There is a sense in Spain of a society taking sides, manning the barricades of an issue that has polarised Spanish opinion more widely than ever. The imminent ban in Catalonia has been a hot topic in the bars of Spain for at least the past 12 months. And then there is the other crucial factor: the rise to fame of the matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Rom\u00e1n Mart\u00edn. When he burst on to the scene in the late 1990s, the then bullfight critic of El Pa\u00eds, Joaquin Vidal, described Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s in ecstatic terms as the rebirth of a spectacle that had fallen into decadence and dullness. The corrida Vidal witnessed at Las Ventas on a May day in 1997 was nothing less, he wrote, than the \"recovery of the eternal bullfight, the happy reencounter with the greatness of the art of bullfighting. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has arrived, and with him, there is a before and after in the fiesta.\"It is hard to overemphasise the galvanising effect of this man and his art, if that is what it is, on the introverted world of the bullfight. The hardcore of serious aficionados, of which there are as few as in, say, the world of opera, have acclaimed him for the classical perfection of his movements with the cape, which recover classic pasos (movements) such as the manoletina and gaonera. His statuesque posture is admired almost as much as his bravery. Elegance, sobriety, serenity are words commonly used to describe his style. One writer describes his control of space and time in the ring, praising his \"cadence, harmony, calm, naturalness\". What everyone notices, critics and public, is the way he places himself with regard to the bull as it passes \u2013 so close that the horns literally graze the fabric of his suit.This extraordinary daring, combined with a certain austerity and seriousness, have led Tom\u00e1s to be placed in the direct lineage of two great historical figures of the bullfighting past, Juan Belmonte and Manolete. As the commentator and retired bullfighter Juan Posada has noted, \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s practises a torero based on basic and classical principles. His merit resides in the way he takes advantage of the situation. He lets the bulls arrive. In our day, he is the torero who comes closest to the almost impossible orthodoxy we dream of. We needed a torero like this, a salutary lesson putting an end to the monotony.\"Even non-bullfight fans have been moved by his performance. Catalan actor Ram\u00f3n Fontser\u00e8, who might have been thought to fit the role of antitaurino to a T, emerged from one of Tom\u00e1s's fights in a dazed state, comparing the bullfighter to Nijinsky. \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s looked to me like a reed rocked by the wind in the centre of the plaza. A miracle, right on the line separating glory from tragedy. I'm not a taurino, but what I've just seen has left me deeply impressed.\"As for Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s the man, his character has elements of both reactionary and rebel, conservative and iconoclast. If his is a revolution, it will not be televised: Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s will not allow his corridas to be broadcast and never gives interviews, creating a media vacuum which, as Leonardo Anselmi of anti-bullfight campaigners Plataforma Prou points out, only serves to swell the cloud of myth already surrounding him. He appears to believe that modern media life is rubbish. \"We live in a very superficial age, full of lies. Television interviews are the bane of my profession,\" he says. Modesty bordering on self-effacement is his default mode. On one of the rare occasions he agreed to talk to the press, his main impulse was to downplay the scale of his impact on the scene. \"People say I'm revolutionising the bullfight, but I'm not sure. I can only say that I try to do things the way I feel them. In the old-fashioned way, with a certain purity, as they've always been done in this world.\"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has little in common with other toreros \u2013 neither with the vulgar and crowd-pleasing Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, nor with well-born fashion-plates like Cayetano Rivera, who models for Armani. He is neither devoutly Catholic nor stridently rightwing \u2013 both par for the course in bullfight circles \u2013 and steers well clear of the permanently hungry, gaping maw that is the Spanish celebrity circuit. His friends are intellectuals and artists like actor Albert Boadella, guitarist Vicente Amigo, singers Joaqu\u00edn Sabina and Joan Manuel Serrat. Most bullfighters would rather live in the countryside amid livestock and country society; not him. Away from the ring, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s lives a quiet life with his girlfriend, Isabel, in the tacky tourist town of Estepona \u2013 in its distance from convention, a statement of sorts. Paparazzi images on the web show him strolling on the prom, chewing bubblegum.Few beyond his closest circle know him at all. One who does, the bullfight writer and biographer Carlos Abella, describes him as \"serious, respectful, prudent, educated, discreet, shy, but warm up-close, affable\u2026 He doesn't want to know anything about fame. He dislikes going to the tributes and he is uncomfortable with the recognition of his success. He accepts it, but he prefers to be alone, fishing, walking his dogs, driving his fast cars\u2026\"Despite the generally hostile climate surrounding his profession, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has been making friends in unlikely places. German photographer Anya Bartels-Suermondt has just published a book (Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: Serenata de un Amanecer \u2013 \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: a Dawn Serenade\") documenting her 14-year study of man and matador, in images as lushly beautiful as they are frequently terrifying. The textures and colours of the bullfight, from the \"suits of lights\" to the curdling pools of blood on sand, have rarely been depicted with such obvious admiration. Bartels-Suermondt confesses that her own family, not to mention her German peers, do not generally share her love of the bullfight. Yet, after years of close observation, she believes the corrida de toros is a unique form of culture based on the \"artistic union of man and animal\". \"I respect the opinions of those who don't enjoy the spectacle \u2013 but the bullfight is part of world culture, and also deserves our respect. Abolition would be a tragic blow to our democratic right of self-expression.\" As for her famous subject, she believes him to be a profoundly gifted artist. \"The first time you watch him you realise that here is something special. He is more than a torero \u2013 he has an aura about him, a charisma, and there is an absolute beauty about what he does. He is extraordinary in every sense.\"It is one of the enormous paradoxes of this man that he has galvanised the anti-bullfight cause as much as the world of the bullfight itself. In 2002, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s retired from the profession, needing, he said, time to think. In June 2007, he returned to the ring, choosing as the venue for his messianic comeback the Plaza de Toros Monumental in Barcelona.The matador's choice of city and plaza was highly significant: for years the huge Monumental bullring had been struggling economically, its downmarket bullfights playing to tourists bussed in from the Costa Brava. Catalan bullfight culture was fading away. At a stroke, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s gave both the Monumental and his local fan base a much-needed shot in the arm. The great and the good of Barcelona society rammed the stalls. Touts demanded up to \u00a43,000 a ticket. The bullfight critics \u2013 whose reports appear in the arts pages of the Spanish papers \u2013 were out in force: Jos\u00e9 Luis Vadillo of El Mundo spoke of \"apotheosis, communion with the public\", and a plaza that had become an \"altar\". El Pais \u2013 notionally a leftwing paper \u2013 decided that the basis of Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's art was \"a poetic and mysterious silence, somewhat hermetic, easier to perceive than to understand\u2026 a silence that makes you shudder, because it doesn't shirk from the silence surrounding death\". The torero duly won three \"ears\" (the prized trophy of the corrida) and was carried from the ring on the shoulders of the multitude amid wild scenes of jubilation.But, as it happens, his return fight turned out to be a watershed as much for the antis as for the pros. Leonardo Anselmi, of the Plataforma Prou, prime mover behind the Catalan bill, describes how the antis' legal masterplan was conceived that day. \"It was all thanks to Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s,\" he laughs, revealing a nice sense of irony. \"When Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s reappeared in the Monumental, until that moment our movement had been a protest movement. Demonstrations, banners, the usual thing. At our first demo in Barcelona, there'd been 300 of us. But the reappearance of this man got us pretty angry, because we realised that the bullfight world was taking the mickey out of us. What had been tradition was now just business. And that's when we started to get political.\"That day in Barcelona saw the biggest anti-bullfight demonstration of all time: 5,000 people marched from the Ramblas to the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the bullfight world was busy acclaiming its conquering hero. From here it was but a step to the massive campaign of signatures \u2013 a total of 180,000 were collected across Catalonia \u2013 which eventually led to a parliamentary bill.Three years later, the battle lines are more clearly drawn than ever. Both pros and antis will be crossing their fingers this summer. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's horrific goring in Aguascalientes, Mexico had left a question mark over the rest of his appearances this year. But the torero has recovered from his wounds in record time \u2013 nothing short of a miracle, say his more devoted followers \u2013 and is said to be planning a spectacular reappearance. The date of this great event? 18 July \u2013 around the same time, say the antis, that the abolition bill is set to become law in Catalonia. The venue? The Plaza de Toros Monumental de Barcelona, scene of the matador's 2007 triumph and symbol of opposition to the fiesta nacional. Unless another bull has its way with him, it won't mean the end of the torero's career. But for the corrida de toros, it might just be the end of an era.", "tags": ["Bullfighting", "Spain", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Why bullfighting is making Spain see red"},{"date": "2010-05-28T22:41:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Wall Street stocks slipped and the euro weakened against the dollar after Spain today lost its coveted AAA credit score from Fitch, the second ratings agency in a month to downgrade the country.As the Spanish government battled to push through \u20ac15bn (\u00a312.7bn) of spending cuts, Fitch cut its sovereign debt rating for the nation by a single notch from AAA to AA+. The move, which followed a similar downgrade by Standard & Poor's four weeks ago, fuelled fears of contagion throughout the eurozone.Fitch's analyst, Brian Coulton, said the challenges facing Spain in implementing austerity measures were behind the move: \"Despite government debt and associated interest costs remaining within the AAA range, Fitch anticipates the economic adjustment process will be more difficult and prolonged than for other economies with AAA-rated sovereign governments.\"In New York, the blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average slid lower on the downgrade, closing down 122 points to 10,136. The euro slipped by 0.8 cents against the dollar, ending at $1.2293, down from $1.32 a month ago. Economists said the development came as little surprise. A week ago, Spain's central bank was obliged to take control of a troubled regional savings bank, CajaSur, after a merger with a competitor fell apart.The Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, won a parliamentary vote by a wafer-thin margin of a single vote on Thursday to implement sweeping budget cuts, including 5% reductions to civil servants' pay. Unions have threatened a general strike over planned labour market reforms.Greece and Portugal have already had their credit ratings cut. Britain still has an AAA endorsement, although both Standard & Poor's and Moody's have made it clear they will be closely scrutinising the Cameron government's plans for debt reduction.Win Thin, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York, told Reuters: \"Spain is the 800-pound gorilla in the room. Greece and Portugal are small countries, but Spain is about five times their size with regards to GDP.\"Unemployment in Spain is running at 20% and the country's once booming housing market has suffered a US-style slump.\u2022 This article was amended on 3 June 2010. The original caption referred to President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, seen with vice-president Maria Teresa Fernandez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Rating agencies", "US economy", "Euro", "Business", "World news", "US news", "Euro", "Europe"], "title": "Euro falls as Spain suffers rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-05-01T11:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "When abroad, it's not unusual for a Spaniard to be mistaken for a Greek. At a distance, the accent in both languages sound so strikingly similar that, sometimes, Greek is not \"all Greek to us\" but we actually take it for Spanish. And yet, when it comes to the economy, Spaniards would react almost angrily at any comparison between our finances and those of our Greek friends.It's nothing personal, and in fact Spain is strongly supportive of aiding Athens. But Spain is definitively not Greece. Not even as Standard & Poor's chose to announce its slight downgrading of the Spanish debt the very day after doing a severe downgrading of Greece's. The result: a loss of almost 3% in the Madrid stock exchange, which was momentarily hit, yes, by that most Greek-sounding word, \"panic\".That was Wednesday. On Thursday, things looked much better. But among many Spaniards there is now a growing sense of being unfairly treated by the markets. The overuse of student-related cliches for the current crisis, like \"doing our homework\", \"learn the lesson\" or \"pass the exam\" have given the world economy the air of a Victorian boarding school. Well, Spain sometimes feels she is been bullied. The lumping together of Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain in the tasteless acronym \"Pigs\", like graffiti scrawled on a door, only adds to this schoolboy style of harassment. Besides, it's not true.Spain does have a serious problem with its economy, no one denies that. But it's not a problem of debt, it's unemployment, which last Friday passed the 20% mark. Almost everybody agrees that this masks an oversized underground economy (not a feat to boast about), but the numbers are staggering nonetheless. This high unemployment rate indeed affects the public debt, since the current Socialist government has expanded its protection for the unemployed. But that is not only a clear social demand; it's also a necessity if we want people to have money to spend.It's true that Spain's prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, has had a slow-motion approach to this crisis (and he has taken flack for that reason, even from friendly quarters). But no less true is that he is facing a Conservative opposition less interested in helping the government than in defeating it (well, that's politics). The almighty employers organization, the CEOE, on their part see the current situation as an opportunity to advance their own agenda on employment reform. Which sort of reform they mean is not clear. Hardly reassuring, though, is the fact that the CEOE is currently headed by a bankrupt businessman who owes his employees many months' worth of wages. No wonder the trade unions are sceptical.But \"homework\" is being done: a new austerity plan has just been announced and the government is planning to go ahead with labour reform with or without the trade unions and the CEOE. Whether that is sufficient remains to be seen. However, as far as the national debt is concerned, even Standard & Poor's admits that there isn't the slightest risk of default and that, if necessary, Spain could easily borrow the money needed to cover this year's deficit.What's the problem, then? The problem is that S&P thinks Spain should change its fiscal model and increase productivity if it expects to hit the 3% target deficit set for 2013. All well and good, but it's precisely this tweak of the ears now that is going to make it more difficult for Spain to \"pass the exam\" then. Exactly the same thing happened in 2009, when another downgrading of our debt by S&P caused rather than prevented a downturn. Which takes us to the argument many are making in Spain this days: the excessive power still enjoyed by the big rating agencies.When the financial crises broke, there was considerable consensus that some of their reckless practices were to blame. After all, was it not Standard & Poor's who gave Lehman Brothers their best rating days before its collapse? The G20 promised to regulate them further, but not much happened. Everybody makes mistakes, sure, but that is why not everybody makes prophecies. The other two main rating agencies still give Spain's debt their highest marks, but the fact is that our debt is now more expensive and our troubles bigger. That's the sort of prophecy you can always bank on: the self-fulfilling prophecy.", "tags": ["Spain", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Union", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Repeat with us: Spain is not Greece | Miguel-Anxo Murado"},{"date": "2010-06-05T23:01:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A bull ring in a big Spanish city on a weekend afternoon: not a place for faint hearts, nor for anyone with ethical qualms about what they are here to see. The plaza is packed to the rafters; there are elderly couples and groups of young women, families, a few teenagers. Imagine a cross between a baseball game, a Roman circus, and a sell-out concert by some X Factor idol. All is noise, heat and shouting and garish colours; a wind band plays Spanish bullfight paso dobles.Nothing about this scene has changed, in essence, since Hemingway, Orson Welles and Ava Gardner pitched up in Pamplona to sit in the front row and chomp on fat cigars. Out on the circle of sand, a vast open-air theatre, still strut the men in their black winged caps, their neat black slippers, their sparkly traje de luces (\"suit of lights\"), tighter on their taut bodies than seems either plausible or advisable, and their thick capes of DayGlo violet on one side and canary-yellow on the other.Even the action, when it happens, seems archaic, timeworn, stuck in a groove of tradition. Out of a gate comes a large black bull moving at great speed, a thick-set beast weighing half a ton. The men in the spangly suits move in, taking the bull around the ring, tiring him out. The banderilleros do their grim business, planting coloured spikes in the bull's back, making the blood stream down its sides. But the torero is the star the public wants to see. He wields the red cape, the bull following it this way and that, creating an effect almost of intimacy as 500 kilos of horned fury brushes past his body. In an unguarded moment, the torero is caught off balance and the bull tosses him on its horns like a rag doll. The crowd screams as the torero staggers to his feet. There is dark blood running down his leg, staining the rich embroidery.In a world that is bent on putting \"reality\" in inverted commas, there are few spectacles more viscerally immediate than this. There is plenty of brutality and death on our computer screens, but this live gore-fest is powerfully shocking to sensibilities numbed by virtual horror.Ten years into the 21st century, it seems extraordinary that a phenomenon like this still has a place at the cultural heart of a modern European nation. There is no underestimating the staying power of a spectacle that some would say forms part of the Spanish national DNA. Yet even in this most tradition-addicted society, the tectonic plates of custom are gradually shifting, and public opinion over the corrida de toros is polarised as never before. On one hand, the Spanish anti-bullfight movement, virtually non-existent 20 years ago, has made huge inroads into a society for whom the notion of animal rights was until recently a puzzlingly alien concept. A proposal is currently going through the Catalan parliament which, if and when it is finally approved this summer, will abolish the corrida once and for all in the region. On the other hand, the news value of the corrida has taken a surprising leap in the past decade, thanks mainly to matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s \u2013 front-page news across the world when he was nearly gored to death in Mexico in April, requiring 17 pints of blood after a bull called Navegante ripped a 15cm hole in his thigh. Not for decades has a matador captured the imagination of bullfight fans like this enigmatic and reclusive man, acclaimed as the saviour of bullfighting for the new dose of glamour he has brought to this most controversial and, some say, anachronistic of sports.For years the bullfight was an aspect of Spanish culture that admitted no debate: it was beyond discussion, immutable and inscrutable, and if the callow expatriate felt there was something not quite right about the corrida, he would be wise to keep his opinions to himself. But a groundswell is forming. In the past few years, I have begun to witness the previously unthinkable in my adopted home country: heated debates around the dinner table at which, remarkably, a majority of the (Spanish) guests say they have serious reservations about a spectacle that mistreats animals for our viewing pleasure. Pop stars and actors are daring to confess the formerly inadmissible \u2013 that the corrida de toros bores and/or disgusts them. Actors Fernando Tejero, Rossy de Palma, singers Alaska and Amparanoia, fashion designer David Delfin and Barcelona footballer Carles Puyol have all come out of the antitaurino closet. Flamenco/hip-hop group Ojos de Brujo are well-known \"antis\" who last month gave a benefit concert in Barcelona in favour of abolition. Though King Juan Carlos is known to be an aficionado, Queen Sofia recently revealed a royal discrepancy: she is against the bullfight. \"Making a bull suffer in the plaza for the public's enjoyment while a few people do business? Let them do what they want, but I won't share it.\"Over 20 years of life in Spain, I have observed the ups and downs of this peculiar world, its fads and fashions, its comings and goings of newsworthiness. Fifteen years ago, for example, the biggest story was Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, who wowed the adolescent girls like a Spanish Peter Andre and once made history by performing a bullfight for a strictly all-female audience. (\"The only balls in the ring have got to be mine and the bull's,\" he joked.) Jesul\u00edn is (or was, until he aged and calmed down) a clown prince whose performances were pure Benny Hill: at one I went to, the arena was strewn with flowers, condoms, teddy bears and pairs of knickers that the torero would occasionally snatch from the sand and hold to his face while the bull stood panting before him.In 1936, Federico Garc\u00eda Lorca described the bullfight as \"probably Spain's greatest poetic and life-sustaining wealth... the most cultured fiesta anywhere in the world\". The word \"fiesta\" in this context means something more than party. The world of the bullfight likes to refer to itself grandiloquently as the fiesta nacional \u2013 as though in a land of hundreds of thousands of fiestas, this is the one big celebration all Spaniards can share in. Right up until the turn of the 21st century, to be a bullfight objector was to be stigmatised as lily-livered and unpatriotic. Antonio Moreno, co-ordinator of the Colectivo Andaluz Contra el Maltrato Animal (Andalucian Collective Against Animal Abuse), remembers how, not all that long ago, anyone speaking badly of the bullfight in a public bar risked been thrown into the street. Within the ranks of the pros, detractors and their opinions were batted away with a casual scorn tinged with both xenophobia and sexism: Andr\u00e9s Amor\u00f3s, doyen of bullfight theoreticians and author of the bulls-as-culture tome Toros y Cultura (1987), dismisses the antitaurinos as \"horrified English spinsters\".Nowadays the opposition is not so easily caricatured \u2013 mainly because support for the \"anti\" cause is no longer marginal. Polls suggest that approximately 70% of Spaniards are uninterested in the corrida, if not actively opposed to it. Pressure groups have sprung up by the dozen, ranging from animal welfare associations such as ADDA (Asociaci\u00f3n Defensa Derechos Animal) and the CAS (Anti-Bullfighting Committee), to political parties, Facebook pages and proto-anarchist cells. Many of these groups take their inspiration from the animal rights movement in the US and UK, with ecology and veganism part of the ideological mix.The antitaurino movement is increasingly vociferous, dynamic and committed. Barely a weekend goes by during the bullfight season without a demonstration outside some city bullring, the protesters daubed with blood and wielding banners with the slogan \"Tortura, ni Arte ni Cultura\". The antis are wised-up technologically and make good use of the internet (compare the creakily archaic bullfight industry, which continues to function more or less as if the world wide web had never been invented). They are more than willing to take long journeys by rented coach across Spain in search of barbaric bull-based fiestas at which to make their presence felt. In Coria, in the western region of Extremadura, the bull runs at the end of June traditionally featured an \"entertainment\" in which coloured darts were lobbed at the bull. Last year a group of antis was instrumental in bringing about a municipal ban on this practice. Another barbaric bull-based fiesta is the Toro de la Vega in Tordesillas, near Valladolid, which has become a touchstone for the fast-growing Spanish animal rights movement \u2013 for obvious reasons. Each September, a fighting bull is taken into the countryside by townsfolk on horseback and stabbed to death with long lances. This bloody and disturbing ritual engenders annual confrontations between antis from across the country and locals who passionately defend the heritage value of the fiesta.The protest movement is notably stronger in the north and east, where bull culture is much more rarefied. Of all the Spanish \"autonomous communities\" it is Catalonia that has become the solar plexus of the antitaurino cause. For Catalan nationalists like Iniciativa per Catalunya, the party shepherding the ban through the Catalan Parliament, bullfighting is political: a 'foreign' custom with no place on Catalan soil. It suits them, therefore, to claim that Catalonia has no real tradition of corrida de toros. In fact this is a piece of bad faith. The curses de braus (Catalan for bullfights) in the province of Tarragona are still enormously popular, whatever Barcelona sophisticates might think. Time was when Barcelona itself was one of Spain's major bullfighting centres, with three rings including Las Arenas (now a shopping centre) and the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the Beatles performed in 1967. Nonetheless, if the Initiativa Legislativa Popular (ILP) becomes law as expected, the antis will have scored the triumph denied them in more recalcitrant parts of the country.There is a sense in Spain of a society taking sides, manning the barricades of an issue that has polarised Spanish opinion more widely than ever. The imminent ban in Catalonia has been a hot topic in the bars of Spain for at least the past 12 months. And then there is the other crucial factor: the rise to fame of the matador Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Rom\u00e1n Mart\u00edn. When he burst on to the scene in the late 1990s, the then bullfight critic of El Pa\u00eds, Joaquin Vidal, described Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s in ecstatic terms as the rebirth of a spectacle that had fallen into decadence and dullness. The corrida Vidal witnessed at Las Ventas on a May day in 1997 was nothing less, he wrote, than the \"recovery of the eternal bullfight, the happy reencounter with the greatness of the art of bullfighting. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has arrived, and with him, there is a before and after in the fiesta.\"It is hard to overemphasise the galvanising effect of this man and his art, if that is what it is, on the introverted world of the bullfight. The hardcore of serious aficionados, of which there are as few as in, say, the world of opera, have acclaimed him for the classical perfection of his movements with the cape, which recover classic pasos (movements) such as the manoletina and gaonera. His statuesque posture is admired almost as much as his bravery. Elegance, sobriety, serenity are words commonly used to describe his style. One writer describes his control of space and time in the ring, praising his \"cadence, harmony, calm, naturalness\". What everyone notices, critics and public, is the way he places himself with regard to the bull as it passes \u2013 so close that the horns literally graze the fabric of his suit.This extraordinary daring, combined with a certain austerity and seriousness, have led Tom\u00e1s to be placed in the direct lineage of two great historical figures of the bullfighting past, Juan Belmonte and Manolete. As the commentator and retired bullfighter Juan Posada has noted, \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s practises a torero based on basic and classical principles. His merit resides in the way he takes advantage of the situation. He lets the bulls arrive. In our day, he is the torero who comes closest to the almost impossible orthodoxy we dream of. We needed a torero like this, a salutary lesson putting an end to the monotony.\"Even non-bullfight fans have been moved by his performance. Catalan actor Ram\u00f3n Fontser\u00e8, who might have been thought to fit the role of antitaurino to a T, emerged from one of Tom\u00e1s's fights in a dazed state, comparing the bullfighter to Nijinsky. \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s looked to me like a reed rocked by the wind in the centre of the plaza. A miracle, right on the line separating glory from tragedy. I'm not a taurino, but what I've just seen has left me deeply impressed.\"As for Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s the man, his character has elements of both reactionary and rebel, conservative and iconoclast. If his is a revolution, it will not be televised: Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s will not allow his corridas to be broadcast and never gives interviews, creating a media vacuum which, as Leonardo Anselmi of anti-bullfight campaigners Plataforma Prou points out, only serves to swell the cloud of myth already surrounding him. He appears to believe that modern media life is rubbish. \"We live in a very superficial age, full of lies. Television interviews are the bane of my profession,\" he says. Modesty bordering on self-effacement is his default mode. On one of the rare occasions he agreed to talk to the press, his main impulse was to downplay the scale of his impact on the scene. \"People say I'm revolutionising the bullfight, but I'm not sure. I can only say that I try to do things the way I feel them. In the old-fashioned way, with a certain purity, as they've always been done in this world.\"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has little in common with other toreros \u2013 neither with the vulgar and crowd-pleasing Jesul\u00edn de Ubrique, nor with well-born fashion-plates like Cayetano Rivera, who models for Armani. He is neither devoutly Catholic nor stridently rightwing \u2013 both par for the course in bullfight circles \u2013 and steers well clear of the permanently hungry, gaping maw that is the Spanish celebrity circuit. His friends are intellectuals and artists like actor Albert Boadella, guitarist Vicente Amigo, singers Joaqu\u00edn Sabina and Joan Manuel Serrat. Most bullfighters would rather live in the countryside amid livestock and country society; not him. Away from the ring, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s lives a quiet life with his girlfriend, Isabel, in the tacky tourist town of Estepona \u2013 in its distance from convention, a statement of sorts. Paparazzi images on the web show him strolling on the prom, chewing bubblegum.Few beyond his closest circle know him at all. One who does, the bullfight writer and biographer Carlos Abella, describes him as \"serious, respectful, prudent, educated, discreet, shy, but warm up-close, affable\u2026 He doesn't want to know anything about fame. He dislikes going to the tributes and he is uncomfortable with the recognition of his success. He accepts it, but he prefers to be alone, fishing, walking his dogs, driving his fast cars\u2026\"Despite the generally hostile climate surrounding his profession, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s has been making friends in unlikely places. German photographer Anya Bartels-Suermondt has just published a book (Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: Serenata de un Amanecer \u2013 \"Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s: a Dawn Serenade\") documenting her 14-year study of man and matador, in images as lushly beautiful as they are frequently terrifying. The textures and colours of the bullfight, from the \"suits of lights\" to the curdling pools of blood on sand, have rarely been depicted with such obvious admiration. Bartels-Suermondt confesses that her own family, not to mention her German peers, do not generally share her love of the bullfight. Yet, after years of close observation, she believes the corrida de toros is a unique form of culture based on the \"artistic union of man and animal\". \"I respect the opinions of those who don't enjoy the spectacle \u2013 but the bullfight is part of world culture, and also deserves our respect. Abolition would be a tragic blow to our democratic right of self-expression.\" As for her famous subject, she believes him to be a profoundly gifted artist. \"The first time you watch him you realise that here is something special. He is more than a torero \u2013 he has an aura about him, a charisma, and there is an absolute beauty about what he does. He is extraordinary in every sense.\"It is one of the enormous paradoxes of this man that he has galvanised the anti-bullfight cause as much as the world of the bullfight itself. In 2002, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s retired from the profession, needing, he said, time to think. In June 2007, he returned to the ring, choosing as the venue for his messianic comeback the Plaza de Toros Monumental in Barcelona.The matador's choice of city and plaza was highly significant: for years the huge Monumental bullring had been struggling economically, its downmarket bullfights playing to tourists bussed in from the Costa Brava. Catalan bullfight culture was fading away. At a stroke, Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s gave both the Monumental and his local fan base a much-needed shot in the arm. The great and the good of Barcelona society rammed the stalls. Touts demanded up to \u00a43,000 a ticket. The bullfight critics \u2013 whose reports appear in the arts pages of the Spanish papers \u2013 were out in force: Jos\u00e9 Luis Vadillo of El Mundo spoke of \"apotheosis, communion with the public\", and a plaza that had become an \"altar\". El Pais \u2013 notionally a leftwing paper \u2013 decided that the basis of Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's art was \"a poetic and mysterious silence, somewhat hermetic, easier to perceive than to understand\u2026 a silence that makes you shudder, because it doesn't shirk from the silence surrounding death\". The torero duly won three \"ears\" (the prized trophy of the corrida) and was carried from the ring on the shoulders of the multitude amid wild scenes of jubilation.But, as it happens, his return fight turned out to be a watershed as much for the antis as for the pros. Leonardo Anselmi, of the Plataforma Prou, prime mover behind the Catalan bill, describes how the antis' legal masterplan was conceived that day. \"It was all thanks to Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s,\" he laughs, revealing a nice sense of irony. \"When Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s reappeared in the Monumental, until that moment our movement had been a protest movement. Demonstrations, banners, the usual thing. At our first demo in Barcelona, there'd been 300 of us. But the reappearance of this man got us pretty angry, because we realised that the bullfight world was taking the mickey out of us. What had been tradition was now just business. And that's when we started to get political.\"That day in Barcelona saw the biggest anti-bullfight demonstration of all time: 5,000 people marched from the Ramblas to the Plaza de Toros Monumental, where the bullfight world was busy acclaiming its conquering hero. From here it was but a step to the massive campaign of signatures \u2013 a total of 180,000 were collected across Catalonia \u2013 which eventually led to a parliamentary bill.Three years later, the battle lines are more clearly drawn than ever. Both pros and antis will be crossing their fingers this summer. Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s's horrific goring in Aguascalientes, Mexico had left a question mark over the rest of his appearances this year. But the torero has recovered from his wounds in record time \u2013 nothing short of a miracle, say his more devoted followers \u2013 and is said to be planning a spectacular reappearance. The date of this great event? 18 July \u2013 around the same time, say the antis, that the abolition bill is set to become law in Catalonia. The venue? The Plaza de Toros Monumental de Barcelona, scene of the matador's 2007 triumph and symbol of opposition to the fiesta nacional. Unless another bull has its way with him, it won't mean the end of the torero's career. But for the corrida de toros, it might just be the end of an era.", "tags": ["Bullfighting", "Spain", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Why bullfighting is making Spain see red"},{"date": "2010-05-28T22:41:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Wall Street stocks slipped and the euro weakened against the dollar after Spain today lost its coveted AAA credit score from Fitch, the second ratings agency in a month to downgrade the country.As the Spanish government battled to push through \u20ac15bn (\u00a312.7bn) of spending cuts, Fitch cut its sovereign debt rating for the nation by a single notch from AAA to AA+. The move, which followed a similar downgrade by Standard & Poor's four weeks ago, fuelled fears of contagion throughout the eurozone.Fitch's analyst, Brian Coulton, said the challenges facing Spain in implementing austerity measures were behind the move: \"Despite government debt and associated interest costs remaining within the AAA range, Fitch anticipates the economic adjustment process will be more difficult and prolonged than for other economies with AAA-rated sovereign governments.\"In New York, the blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average slid lower on the downgrade, closing down 122 points to 10,136. The euro slipped by 0.8 cents against the dollar, ending at $1.2293, down from $1.32 a month ago. Economists said the development came as little surprise. A week ago, Spain's central bank was obliged to take control of a troubled regional savings bank, CajaSur, after a merger with a competitor fell apart.The Spanish prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, won a parliamentary vote by a wafer-thin margin of a single vote on Thursday to implement sweeping budget cuts, including 5% reductions to civil servants' pay. Unions have threatened a general strike over planned labour market reforms.Greece and Portugal have already had their credit ratings cut. Britain still has an AAA endorsement, although both Standard & Poor's and Moody's have made it clear they will be closely scrutinising the Cameron government's plans for debt reduction.Win Thin, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York, told Reuters: \"Spain is the 800-pound gorilla in the room. Greece and Portugal are small countries, but Spain is about five times their size with regards to GDP.\"Unemployment in Spain is running at 20% and the country's once booming housing market has suffered a US-style slump.\u2022 This article was amended on 3 June 2010. The original caption referred to President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, seen with vice-president Maria Teresa Fernandez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Rating agencies", "US economy", "Euro", "Business", "World news", "US news", "Euro", "Europe"], "title": "Euro falls as Spain suffers rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-05-01T11:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "When abroad, it's not unusual for a Spaniard to be mistaken for a Greek. At a distance, the accent in both languages sound so strikingly similar that, sometimes, Greek is not \"all Greek to us\" but we actually take it for Spanish. And yet, when it comes to the economy, Spaniards would react almost angrily at any comparison between our finances and those of our Greek friends.It's nothing personal, and in fact Spain is strongly supportive of aiding Athens. But Spain is definitively not Greece. Not even as Standard & Poor's chose to announce its slight downgrading of the Spanish debt the very day after doing a severe downgrading of Greece's. The result: a loss of almost 3% in the Madrid stock exchange, which was momentarily hit, yes, by that most Greek-sounding word, \"panic\".That was Wednesday. On Thursday, things looked much better. But among many Spaniards there is now a growing sense of being unfairly treated by the markets. The overuse of student-related cliches for the current crisis, like \"doing our homework\", \"learn the lesson\" or \"pass the exam\" have given the world economy the air of a Victorian boarding school. Well, Spain sometimes feels she is been bullied. The lumping together of Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain in the tasteless acronym \"Pigs\", like graffiti scrawled on a door, only adds to this schoolboy style of harassment. Besides, it's not true.Spain does have a serious problem with its economy, no one denies that. But it's not a problem of debt, it's unemployment, which last Friday passed the 20% mark. Almost everybody agrees that this masks an oversized underground economy (not a feat to boast about), but the numbers are staggering nonetheless. This high unemployment rate indeed affects the public debt, since the current Socialist government has expanded its protection for the unemployed. But that is not only a clear social demand; it's also a necessity if we want people to have money to spend.It's true that Spain's prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, has had a slow-motion approach to this crisis (and he has taken flack for that reason, even from friendly quarters). But no less true is that he is facing a Conservative opposition less interested in helping the government than in defeating it (well, that's politics). The almighty employers organization, the CEOE, on their part see the current situation as an opportunity to advance their own agenda on employment reform. Which sort of reform they mean is not clear. Hardly reassuring, though, is the fact that the CEOE is currently headed by a bankrupt businessman who owes his employees many months' worth of wages. No wonder the trade unions are sceptical.But \"homework\" is being done: a new austerity plan has just been announced and the government is planning to go ahead with labour reform with or without the trade unions and the CEOE. Whether that is sufficient remains to be seen. However, as far as the national debt is concerned, even Standard & Poor's admits that there isn't the slightest risk of default and that, if necessary, Spain could easily borrow the money needed to cover this year's deficit.What's the problem, then? The problem is that S&P thinks Spain should change its fiscal model and increase productivity if it expects to hit the 3% target deficit set for 2013. All well and good, but it's precisely this tweak of the ears now that is going to make it more difficult for Spain to \"pass the exam\" then. Exactly the same thing happened in 2009, when another downgrading of our debt by S&P caused rather than prevented a downturn. Which takes us to the argument many are making in Spain this days: the excessive power still enjoyed by the big rating agencies.When the financial crises broke, there was considerable consensus that some of their reckless practices were to blame. After all, was it not Standard & Poor's who gave Lehman Brothers their best rating days before its collapse? The G20 promised to regulate them further, but not much happened. Everybody makes mistakes, sure, but that is why not everybody makes prophecies. The other two main rating agencies still give Spain's debt their highest marks, but the fact is that our debt is now more expensive and our troubles bigger. That's the sort of prophecy you can always bank on: the self-fulfilling prophecy.", "tags": ["Spain", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Union", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Repeat with us: Spain is not Greece | Miguel-Anxo Murado"},{"date": "2010-06-30T15:28:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's 1-0 win over Portugal attracted the biggest World Cup audience for a non-England match so far, with just over 8.5 million viewers tuning in for live match coverage across BBC1 and BBC HD last night, Tuesday 29 June.Live coverage averaged 8.575 million viewers and a 39.5% share across the two channels between 7.30 and 9.15pm. BBC HD added 586,000 (2.7%).The previous best figures for a World Cup 2010 match not involving England were 8.458 million (36.9%) across BBC1 and BBC HD for live match coverage of Brazil v Ivory Coast on Sunday 20 June.Earlier yesterday, extended live match coverage of the first penalty shootout of the 2010 World Cup, in which Paraguay beat Japan, averaged 2.772 million (27.1%) on ITV1 and ITV1 HD between 3.30pm and 5.45pm. ITV1 HD had 167,000 viewers.BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4, Channel Five (available in all UK homes with TV, except Five, which reaches about 95%)BBC11.45pm-6pm: Wimbledon 2010 \u2013 1.49 million/16.5%10.35pm: Imagine \u2013 1.811 million/13.8%BBC212pm-3.25pm: Wimbledon 2010 \u2013 727,000/11.2%, BBC HD 49,000/0.5%5.50pm-8pm: Wimbledon 2010 \u2013 746,000/4.3%8pm: Today at Wimbledon \u2013 939,000/4.3%9pm: Tribal Wives \u2013 1.658 million/7.1%ITV17pm: Emmerdale \u2013 5.412 million/28.9%, ITV1 HD 102,000/0.3%9pm: The Bill \u2013 2.655 million/11.4%, ITV1 HD 64,000/0.2%Channel 48pm: Gok's Fashion Fix \u2013 1.736 million/7.9%, C4 +1 248,000/1.1%9pm: The Untold Battle of Britain \u2013 1.785 million/7.6%, C4 +1 167,000/0.9%10pm: Big Brother \u2013 2.236 million/12.9%, C4 +1 190,000/2%Five8pm: Build a New Life: Was It Worth It? \u2013 941,000/4.3%\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["TV ratings", "Television industry", "Media"], "title": "TV ratings \u2013 29 June: Spain World Cup victory entices 8.5m"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-23T10:06:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google \"profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights\".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: \"We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded.\"Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: \"This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites \u2013 not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others \u2013 would grind to a halt.\"We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities.\"In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a \"general awareness\" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "YouTube", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media", "Law", "Digital video", "Intellectual property"], "title": "Google wins YouTube case in Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-23T10:06:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google \"profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights\".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: \"We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded.\"Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: \"This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites \u2013 not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others \u2013 would grind to a halt.\"We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities.\"In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a \"general awareness\" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "YouTube", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media", "Law", "Digital video", "Intellectual property"], "title": "Google wins YouTube case in Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-22T19:00:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "So the Swiss have joined an elite club by having more women than men in their government \u2013 no mean feat considering women only gained the vote in Switzerland in 1971.They could look to Spain to see what the future might hold. Spain's socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, began as he meant to go on when he appointed his first government in 2004, which was made up of eight men and eight women (if you count him out). When he won a second term, in 2008, his new cabinet was nine women and eight men, a situation that still exists. And the women don't just hold token posts: the deputy prime minister and the finance minister are both women. And the minister of defence, Carme Chac\u00f3n, has had a baby on the job.But does a balanced cabinet achieve anything more than predictable complaints about hairstyles and \"the best man for the job\"? After all, women are hardly numerous in the upper echelons of other parts of Spanish society. The government has appointed only four women to the 19 key posts of government delegate to Spain's semi-autonomous regions. And only eight occupy the 44 spots on the scale below. And, even if a quarter of the directors of state-owned companies are now women, those in stock-market-listed companies remain at just one in 10.Nonetheless, the Spanish government has produced women-friendly policies to match its composition. A new law freeing up abortion and another that eased divorce were both long-standing petitions. And one of Spain's priorities during its EU presidency in the first half of this year was to get combined action on domestic violence.And things are getting better in business. The number of women directors at listed companies has increased three-fold since 2003 (thanks, partly, to a law calling for parity by 2015).The Spanish case would seem to prove that if you want absolute parity you must either guarantee it by law or impose it by prime-ministerial decree \u2013 starting with the cabinet.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Women in politics", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Women in politics: Spain leads the way"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-23T10:06:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google \"profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights\".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: \"We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded.\"Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: \"This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites \u2013 not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others \u2013 would grind to a halt.\"We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities.\"In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a \"general awareness\" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "YouTube", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media", "Law", "Digital video", "Intellectual property"], "title": "Google wins YouTube case in Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-22T19:00:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "So the Swiss have joined an elite club by having more women than men in their government \u2013 no mean feat considering women only gained the vote in Switzerland in 1971.They could look to Spain to see what the future might hold. Spain's socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, began as he meant to go on when he appointed his first government in 2004, which was made up of eight men and eight women (if you count him out). When he won a second term, in 2008, his new cabinet was nine women and eight men, a situation that still exists. And the women don't just hold token posts: the deputy prime minister and the finance minister are both women. And the minister of defence, Carme Chac\u00f3n, has had a baby on the job.But does a balanced cabinet achieve anything more than predictable complaints about hairstyles and \"the best man for the job\"? After all, women are hardly numerous in the upper echelons of other parts of Spanish society. The government has appointed only four women to the 19 key posts of government delegate to Spain's semi-autonomous regions. And only eight occupy the 44 spots on the scale below. And, even if a quarter of the directors of state-owned companies are now women, those in stock-market-listed companies remain at just one in 10.Nonetheless, the Spanish government has produced women-friendly policies to match its composition. A new law freeing up abortion and another that eased divorce were both long-standing petitions. And one of Spain's priorities during its EU presidency in the first half of this year was to get combined action on domestic violence.And things are getting better in business. The number of women directors at listed companies has increased three-fold since 2003 (thanks, partly, to a law calling for parity by 2015).The Spanish case would seem to prove that if you want absolute parity you must either guarantee it by law or impose it by prime-ministerial decree \u2013 starting with the cabinet.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Women in politics", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Women in politics: Spain leads the way"},{"date": "2010-09-06T10:05:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's socialist government today ruled out negotations with the armed Basque separatist group Eta, claiming the organisation had announced a ceasefire purely because it was too weak to carry out terrorist attacks.\"Eta kills in order to impose itself, so that means one cannot dialogue,\" said the interior minister, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba. \"Eta has stopped because it cannot do anything ... and also in order to rebuild itself.\"The government declined to comment officially, but was busily repeating the message that it did not believe in Eta's ceasefire. \"The Eta terrorist group is very weakened,\" said the transport minister, Jos\u00e9 Blanco. The government was only interested, he said, in \"a definitive laying down of arms and end to violence\".The momentary excitement caused by yesterday's video message from Eta had almost entirely dissipated today, although some radical separatists in the Basque country welcomed what they called a \"unilateral, unconditional and indefinite\" ceasefire.Analysts gave little credence to the idea that the ceasefire might mark the end of four decades of violence that have claimed more than 800 lives. They said the group had been forced to stop planning attacks six month ago after a series of arrests left it leaderless and disorganised.\"The statement aims to give political meaning to a strategic rest decreed by Eta's leaders six months ago in order to reorganise internally to cope with police pressure,\" wrote Florencio Dom\u00ednguez, an Eta expert, in La Vanguardia newspaper.Dominguez pointed to the arrest in February of Ibon Gojeaskoetxea, a senior Eta commander, as the key moment. That arrest was hailed as the fifth time in two years that police had detained the person directly in charge of Eta's handful of remaining armed units.At the same time, police had prevented new units from being formed in several parts of Spain, and discovered Eta's latest bombmaking laboratory and had dismantled its new bases in Portugal, to where Eta had hoped to move its support infrastructure that historically had been based in France.The killing in March of a French police officer, who discovered members of the gang trying to steal cars at a showroom near Paris, was the result of a panicked attempt to escape arrest and came despite the decision to stop carrying out attacks, according to Rogelio Alonso, of Madrid's Rey Juan Carlos University.\"Eta is selling smoke,\" he said. \"Even during their ceasefires, they continue to kill.\"The immediate result of that killing, in any case, had been to increase the intensity of French police pressure on the group.Observers saw the ceasefire statement \u2013 read out by a masked woman \u2013 as a response to pressure from former leaders of the banned Batasuna party, who have been urging Eta to call a permanent ceasefire so that the party can be legalised once more. But the announcement fell short of meeting the demands of the Batasuna leaders, with Eta failing to indicate whether its ceasefire was permanent or temporary.A group of spokesmen for the radical Basque separatist movement that is close to Eta nevertheless hailed the ceasefire as \"a valuable contribution to the construction of peace and the consolidation of democratic process\".Attempts by radical separatists to guide Eta towards abandoning violence were being \"sabotaged\" by the government, columnist Ram\u00f3n Sola claimed in the Basque-language newspaper Gara.\"The announcement that there will be no attacks provides a secure zone where the socialist government can resolve an armed conflict that has outlasted two different regimes and dozens of governments,\" he said, referring to the dictatorship of General Francisco Franco and the democratic governments elected after his death in 1975.", "tags": ["Eta", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Eta too weak to attack, says Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-23T10:06:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google \"profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights\".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: \"We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded.\"Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: \"This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites \u2013 not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others \u2013 would grind to a halt.\"We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities.\"In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a \"general awareness\" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "YouTube", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media", "Law", "Digital video", "Intellectual property"], "title": "Google wins YouTube case in Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-22T19:00:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "So the Swiss have joined an elite club by having more women than men in their government \u2013 no mean feat considering women only gained the vote in Switzerland in 1971.They could look to Spain to see what the future might hold. Spain's socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, began as he meant to go on when he appointed his first government in 2004, which was made up of eight men and eight women (if you count him out). When he won a second term, in 2008, his new cabinet was nine women and eight men, a situation that still exists. And the women don't just hold token posts: the deputy prime minister and the finance minister are both women. And the minister of defence, Carme Chac\u00f3n, has had a baby on the job.But does a balanced cabinet achieve anything more than predictable complaints about hairstyles and \"the best man for the job\"? After all, women are hardly numerous in the upper echelons of other parts of Spanish society. The government has appointed only four women to the 19 key posts of government delegate to Spain's semi-autonomous regions. And only eight occupy the 44 spots on the scale below. And, even if a quarter of the directors of state-owned companies are now women, those in stock-market-listed companies remain at just one in 10.Nonetheless, the Spanish government has produced women-friendly policies to match its composition. A new law freeing up abortion and another that eased divorce were both long-standing petitions. And one of Spain's priorities during its EU presidency in the first half of this year was to get combined action on domestic violence.And things are getting better in business. The number of women directors at listed companies has increased three-fold since 2003 (thanks, partly, to a law calling for parity by 2015).The Spanish case would seem to prove that if you want absolute parity you must either guarantee it by law or impose it by prime-ministerial decree \u2013 starting with the cabinet.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Women in politics", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Women in politics: Spain leads the way"},{"date": "2010-09-06T10:05:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's socialist government today ruled out negotations with the armed Basque separatist group Eta, claiming the organisation had announced a ceasefire purely because it was too weak to carry out terrorist attacks.\"Eta kills in order to impose itself, so that means one cannot dialogue,\" said the interior minister, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba. \"Eta has stopped because it cannot do anything ... and also in order to rebuild itself.\"The government declined to comment officially, but was busily repeating the message that it did not believe in Eta's ceasefire. \"The Eta terrorist group is very weakened,\" said the transport minister, Jos\u00e9 Blanco. The government was only interested, he said, in \"a definitive laying down of arms and end to violence\".The momentary excitement caused by yesterday's video message from Eta had almost entirely dissipated today, although some radical separatists in the Basque country welcomed what they called a \"unilateral, unconditional and indefinite\" ceasefire.Analysts gave little credence to the idea that the ceasefire might mark the end of four decades of violence that have claimed more than 800 lives. They said the group had been forced to stop planning attacks six month ago after a series of arrests left it leaderless and disorganised.\"The statement aims to give political meaning to a strategic rest decreed by Eta's leaders six months ago in order to reorganise internally to cope with police pressure,\" wrote Florencio Dom\u00ednguez, an Eta expert, in La Vanguardia newspaper.Dominguez pointed to the arrest in February of Ibon Gojeaskoetxea, a senior Eta commander, as the key moment. That arrest was hailed as the fifth time in two years that police had detained the person directly in charge of Eta's handful of remaining armed units.At the same time, police had prevented new units from being formed in several parts of Spain, and discovered Eta's latest bombmaking laboratory and had dismantled its new bases in Portugal, to where Eta had hoped to move its support infrastructure that historically had been based in France.The killing in March of a French police officer, who discovered members of the gang trying to steal cars at a showroom near Paris, was the result of a panicked attempt to escape arrest and came despite the decision to stop carrying out attacks, according to Rogelio Alonso, of Madrid's Rey Juan Carlos University.\"Eta is selling smoke,\" he said. \"Even during their ceasefires, they continue to kill.\"The immediate result of that killing, in any case, had been to increase the intensity of French police pressure on the group.Observers saw the ceasefire statement \u2013 read out by a masked woman \u2013 as a response to pressure from former leaders of the banned Batasuna party, who have been urging Eta to call a permanent ceasefire so that the party can be legalised once more. But the announcement fell short of meeting the demands of the Batasuna leaders, with Eta failing to indicate whether its ceasefire was permanent or temporary.A group of spokesmen for the radical Basque separatist movement that is close to Eta nevertheless hailed the ceasefire as \"a valuable contribution to the construction of peace and the consolidation of democratic process\".Attempts by radical separatists to guide Eta towards abandoning violence were being \"sabotaged\" by the government, columnist Ram\u00f3n Sola claimed in the Basque-language newspaper Gara.\"The announcement that there will be no attacks provides a secure zone where the socialist government can resolve an armed conflict that has outlasted two different regimes and dozens of governments,\" he said, referring to the dictatorship of General Francisco Franco and the democratic governments elected after his death in 1975.", "tags": ["Eta", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Eta too weak to attack, says Spain"},{"date": "2010-07-26T19:00:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Even if you don't follow sport closely, you may have noticed that Spain is on a winning streak at the moment: they won the World Cup; Rafael Nadal won Wimbledon for the second time; over the weekend Alberto Contador won the Tour de France and (despite some controversy that led to a \u00a3100,000 fine for Ferrari) Fernando Alonso won the German Grand Prix.We're already in the second half of 2010. What's left for the Spanish to win?\u2022 Golf Spain's Sergio Garcia isn't having the greatest year of his career, but he's in with a chance at the Greenbrier Classic in a few days' time, the Bridgestone Invitational at the beginning of August and the 92nd PGA Championship after\u00a0that.\u2022 Water Polo Spain won a silver medal at last year's World Aquatics Championships in Rome, after losing to Serbia in the final. Unfortunately the event is only held in odd years, so they'll have to wait until 2011 to go for gold.\u2022 The Oscars The Academy Awards are also in 2011, but the films they concern are from 2010. In the past Pen\u00e9lope Cruz has been nominated for three Oscars and won once, but this year the only film she has been in was Sex and the City\u00a02, which is unlikely to garner many statuettes. Her husband and fellow Oscar-winner Javier Bardem has a better shot: he's already won a best actor award at this year's Cannes festival for his role in the film Biutiful.\u2022 Gibraltar Trilateral talks between the British territory, the Foreign Office and the Spanish government are ongoing. It's unlikely the UK would simply give up Gibraltar, especially by the end of the year, but the way the Spanish are going right now you wouldn't want to bet against them.", "tags": ["Spain", "Spain", "Rafael Nadal", "Fernando Alonso", "Alberto Contador", "Javier Bardem", "Europe"], "title": "What else can Spain win in 2010?"},{"date": "2010-09-30T13:34:50Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain lost its top triple A credit status today, held since 2001, as agency Moody's cut its rating by a notch to Aa1 from Aaa.Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings already cut their ratings of Spanish government debt in April and May respectively. The cut puts Mooody's ranking on a par with Fitch's AA+ classification, one notch above S&P's AA ranking.The downgrade had been widely expected, after Moody's put the country's debt on review three months ago. It cited the fiscal deterioration in Spain and the challenges faced by the government in reducing the budget deficit at a time when the economy is barely growing.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Spain", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain loses top credit rating"},{"date": "2010-08-17T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company, said Street View cars had been \"mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products\".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswoman told Spanish daily newpaper El Mundo that the company is cooperating \"in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have\". \"Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities.\"Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected \"significant amounts of personal data\", and that there is \"no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment\".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data \u2013 amounting to 600MB \u2013 is being investigated.", "tags": ["Google Street View", "Data protection", "Internet", "Google", "Technology", "Privacy", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain probes Google Street View"},{"date": "2010-09-29T09:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's crisis-struck economy is set to lose its top credit rating, held since 2001, in a downgrade expected from Moody's by the end of the week.The credit rating agency is expected to cut Spain's Aaa rating to Aa1 or Aa2. A one-notch cut would put Moody's ranking on a par with Fitch Ratings' AA+ classification, while a two-notch reduction would equal Standard & Poor's.The decision appears to be imminent as Moody's put Spain's debt on review for a possible downgrade on 30 June, saying it would conclude its analysis within three months. It said then that it would take Spain several years to recover from the collapse of its property market, with GDP growth seen at slightly above 1% between 2010 and 2014. Moody's senior credit officer Steven Hess warned at the end of July that the country was likely to lose its top credit rating.Spain faces a general strike today with unions protesting against the government's spending cuts and changes to labour rules.The country grew just 0.2% in the second quarter and 0.1% in the first as unemployment stayed above 20%, the highest in the eurozone. The economy is expected to shrink 0.4% this year.Ireland has also received warnings from S&P that if government support for Anglo Irish Bank exceeds \u20ac35bn (\u00a330bn), the country faces another downgrade on its debt rating.", "tags": ["Rating agencies", "Financial sector", "Spain", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain set for credit rating downgrade"},{"date": "2010-07-08T15:41:21Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is indeed having a good day today. As people celebrate the football triumph over Germany, while others run in front of the bulls in Pamplona, government officials may be breathing in relief about the lower pressure from market jitters.Following the country's successful bond sale earlier this week, the cost to protect $10bn of Spanish government bonds against default fell by $15,000 to $232,000, an indication that investors have eased their fears about Spain following Greece into a bail-out.\"The bond sale earlier this week was the initial catalyst, and the clarification of the bank stress test criteria has helped sentiment today,\" said Gavan Nolan, an analyst at Markit.Spanish officials expect that the forthcoming European Union stress tests on the country's banks and Cajas will highlight their soundness, rather than increase fears about potential weaknesses.The government of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero expects the results, to be published at the end of this month, will feel like scoring a goal to market speculators (who have scored many times against the Spanish government so far this year.)To Zapatero, a victory over speculators will feel sweeter than even the World Cup.", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Spain enjoys football, bond triumph"},{"date": "2010-09-23T10:06:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google \"profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights\".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: \"We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded.\"Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: \"This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites \u2013 not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others \u2013 would grind to a halt.\"We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities.\"In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a \"general awareness\" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "YouTube", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media", "Law", "Digital video", "Intellectual property"], "title": "Google wins YouTube case in Spain"},{"date": "2010-09-22T19:00:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "So the Swiss have joined an elite club by having more women than men in their government \u2013 no mean feat considering women only gained the vote in Switzerland in 1971.They could look to Spain to see what the future might hold. Spain's socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, began as he meant to go on when he appointed his first government in 2004, which was made up of eight men and eight women (if you count him out). When he won a second term, in 2008, his new cabinet was nine women and eight men, a situation that still exists. And the women don't just hold token posts: the deputy prime minister and the finance minister are both women. And the minister of defence, Carme Chac\u00f3n, has had a baby on the job.But does a balanced cabinet achieve anything more than predictable complaints about hairstyles and \"the best man for the job\"? After all, women are hardly numerous in the upper echelons of other parts of Spanish society. The government has appointed only four women to the 19 key posts of government delegate to Spain's semi-autonomous regions. And only eight occupy the 44 spots on the scale below. And, even if a quarter of the directors of state-owned companies are now women, those in stock-market-listed companies remain at just one in 10.Nonetheless, the Spanish government has produced women-friendly policies to match its composition. A new law freeing up abortion and another that eased divorce were both long-standing petitions. And one of Spain's priorities during its EU presidency in the first half of this year was to get combined action on domestic violence.And things are getting better in business. The number of women directors at listed companies has increased three-fold since 2003 (thanks, partly, to a law calling for parity by 2015).The Spanish case would seem to prove that if you want absolute parity you must either guarantee it by law or impose it by prime-ministerial decree \u2013 starting with the cabinet.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Women in politics", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Women in politics: Spain leads the way"},{"date": "2010-09-06T10:05:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's socialist government today ruled out negotations with the armed Basque separatist group Eta, claiming the organisation had announced a ceasefire purely because it was too weak to carry out terrorist attacks.\"Eta kills in order to impose itself, so that means one cannot dialogue,\" said the interior minister, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba. \"Eta has stopped because it cannot do anything ... and also in order to rebuild itself.\"The government declined to comment officially, but was busily repeating the message that it did not believe in Eta's ceasefire. \"The Eta terrorist group is very weakened,\" said the transport minister, Jos\u00e9 Blanco. The government was only interested, he said, in \"a definitive laying down of arms and end to violence\".The momentary excitement caused by yesterday's video message from Eta had almost entirely dissipated today, although some radical separatists in the Basque country welcomed what they called a \"unilateral, unconditional and indefinite\" ceasefire.Analysts gave little credence to the idea that the ceasefire might mark the end of four decades of violence that have claimed more than 800 lives. They said the group had been forced to stop planning attacks six month ago after a series of arrests left it leaderless and disorganised.\"The statement aims to give political meaning to a strategic rest decreed by Eta's leaders six months ago in order to reorganise internally to cope with police pressure,\" wrote Florencio Dom\u00ednguez, an Eta expert, in La Vanguardia newspaper.Dominguez pointed to the arrest in February of Ibon Gojeaskoetxea, a senior Eta commander, as the key moment. That arrest was hailed as the fifth time in two years that police had detained the person directly in charge of Eta's handful of remaining armed units.At the same time, police had prevented new units from being formed in several parts of Spain, and discovered Eta's latest bombmaking laboratory and had dismantled its new bases in Portugal, to where Eta had hoped to move its support infrastructure that historically had been based in France.The killing in March of a French police officer, who discovered members of the gang trying to steal cars at a showroom near Paris, was the result of a panicked attempt to escape arrest and came despite the decision to stop carrying out attacks, according to Rogelio Alonso, of Madrid's Rey Juan Carlos University.\"Eta is selling smoke,\" he said. \"Even during their ceasefires, they continue to kill.\"The immediate result of that killing, in any case, had been to increase the intensity of French police pressure on the group.Observers saw the ceasefire statement \u2013 read out by a masked woman \u2013 as a response to pressure from former leaders of the banned Batasuna party, who have been urging Eta to call a permanent ceasefire so that the party can be legalised once more. But the announcement fell short of meeting the demands of the Batasuna leaders, with Eta failing to indicate whether its ceasefire was permanent or temporary.A group of spokesmen for the radical Basque separatist movement that is close to Eta nevertheless hailed the ceasefire as \"a valuable contribution to the construction of peace and the consolidation of democratic process\".Attempts by radical separatists to guide Eta towards abandoning violence were being \"sabotaged\" by the government, columnist Ram\u00f3n Sola claimed in the Basque-language newspaper Gara.\"The announcement that there will be no attacks provides a secure zone where the socialist government can resolve an armed conflict that has outlasted two different regimes and dozens of governments,\" he said, referring to the dictatorship of General Francisco Franco and the democratic governments elected after his death in 1975.", "tags": ["Eta", "Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Eta too weak to attack, says Spain"},{"date": "2010-07-26T19:00:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Even if you don't follow sport closely, you may have noticed that Spain is on a winning streak at the moment: they won the World Cup; Rafael Nadal won Wimbledon for the second time; over the weekend Alberto Contador won the Tour de France and (despite some controversy that led to a \u00a3100,000 fine for Ferrari) Fernando Alonso won the German Grand Prix.We're already in the second half of 2010. What's left for the Spanish to win?\u2022 Golf Spain's Sergio Garcia isn't having the greatest year of his career, but he's in with a chance at the Greenbrier Classic in a few days' time, the Bridgestone Invitational at the beginning of August and the 92nd PGA Championship after\u00a0that.\u2022 Water Polo Spain won a silver medal at last year's World Aquatics Championships in Rome, after losing to Serbia in the final. Unfortunately the event is only held in odd years, so they'll have to wait until 2011 to go for gold.\u2022 The Oscars The Academy Awards are also in 2011, but the films they concern are from 2010. In the past Pen\u00e9lope Cruz has been nominated for three Oscars and won once, but this year the only film she has been in was Sex and the City\u00a02, which is unlikely to garner many statuettes. Her husband and fellow Oscar-winner Javier Bardem has a better shot: he's already won a best actor award at this year's Cannes festival for his role in the film Biutiful.\u2022 Gibraltar Trilateral talks between the British territory, the Foreign Office and the Spanish government are ongoing. It's unlikely the UK would simply give up Gibraltar, especially by the end of the year, but the way the Spanish are going right now you wouldn't want to bet against them.", "tags": ["Spain", "Spain", "Rafael Nadal", "Fernando Alonso", "Alberto Contador", "Javier Bardem", "Europe"], "title": "What else can Spain win in 2010?"},{"date": "2010-07-13T12:30:11Z", "country": "spain", "content": "When I was a kid, it was easy to recall all of the greatest moments of Spanish international football \u2013 there were so few of them. You had the famous \"Zarra's goal\" of 1950 against England (\"The perfidious Brits\", as the Francoist broadcasters put it). Then, there was the no less momentous 1964 \"Marcelino's goal\" against the USSR (guess what the broadcasters said) \u2026 And that's about it. Yet those goals had been endowed with a historical meaning: Telmo Zarra, we were informed, had avenged the Spanish Armada of 1588, while Marcelino Mart\u00ednez had single-handedly defeated Communism.My generation had its own goal too. Regrettably, it was the goal that never was: the infamous \"Carde\u00f1osa's goal\". You're forgiven if it doesn't ring a bell. It went like this. In 1978, and in bold defiance of the laws of geometry, Julio Carde\u00f1osa squandered a ball right in front of an almost deserted Brazilian goal. Though what he did was arguably more difficult than scoring, Carde\u00f1osa (who was, in fact, a wonderful player) saw his name turn into a byword for clumsy failure. Worse, he became the symbol of an alleged crisis of confidence in post-Francoist Spain. The cause? Pundits had no doubt about it: discomfort with the national symbols among the political left and conflicting national loyalties in Catalonia and the Basque country were to blame. The symptoms: a reluctance to wave the Spanish flag and the inability to remember the lyrics of the national anthem (to this day, most Spaniards believe it has no words, which is not true, though if you know them you'd think ignorance is bliss).So, what would be the meaning of \"Iniesta's goal\", the one that has just conquered the World Cup for us? For most supporters it means nothing more than fun. Thousands have been celebrating in the streets, living the sheer excitement of a mass party, as they should. But open a Madrid newspaper and you'll get a far less spontaneous line: Andr\u00e9s Iniesta's goal is a rebuff to those who doubt Spain's economic probity. Even more obsessively: It's a victory of \"unity\" over the \"disloyal demands\" of self-government in Catalonia. Some are already envisaging a reborn Spain where everybody will be waving the flag without hesitation in a never-ending World Cup final. And there are plenty of flags these days, no doubt.But things are a bit more complex than this narrow nationalistic view supposes. Up to eight men in the Spanish outfit play for Barcelona, five happen to be Catalans and four of them are part of the unofficial Catalonia national team, which is seeking recognition by Fifa to compete in its own right. Their kissing of the Catalan flag during the closing ceremony in Johannesburg offers a much more nuanced view on the subject of loyalties and symbols in modern Spain.As for the economy, the sad fact is that Spain's currency remains the Euro, not football. Unfortunately, Paul the octopus's prediction that Spain would beat Germany seems to have referred solely to the pitch, not the stock market. There are still those who stick to the theory that success in sports can boost consumer confidence. The minister of industry is among them; he said that after the Spanish win the government may revise favourably its growth forecast. True, in 2006 a report estimated that Germany's World Cup would increase its GDP by 0.7%. Also true \u2013 it never happened.So, what is the symbolism of \"Iniesta's goal\", then? Well, what if it doesn't have any? Maybe goals, the hybrid of chance and talent, don't have a historical meaning after all. Maybe the explanation of Spain's recent string of successes in sport is far simpler than those disquieting ideas about \"unity\" and \"national purpose\": there were never so many good players before. That's all. I, for one, prefer it that way. To my generation, at least, it would be a relief to learn that Zarra was not exacting revenge for the shipwrecked Armada. That the fall of the Berlin Wall could have happened without the help of Marcelino. That we, the children of Carde\u00f1osa, are not doomed to be such a helpless lot forever.", "tags": ["Andr\u00e9s Iniesta", "Spain", "Barcelona", "World Cup 2010", "Football", "Spain", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "The meaning of Iniesta's goal to Spain | Miguel-Anxo Murado"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-11-30T20:47:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Another day, another opportunity to whack the bonds of the weaklings of the eurozone. Even the Dutch finance minister concedes that it \"could take months\" before stability returns to the eurozone. Behind the broad sweep of pessimism, it is worth thinking about how the \"eurozone in crisis\" story could eventually improve. Spain is the key. If that domino does not fall, the picture could look different in the new year.According to the optimists, Spain should not have to take a trip to the emergency ward. Yes, everybody knows about the recession, the 40% fall in property prices and the 20% rate of unemployment. But, as one old market hand puts it, 20% unemployment in Spain used to be regarded as a normal \u2013 the \"unofficial\" economy makes the true number better. As for the property slump, it is severe, but loan-to-value ratios are not off the scale \u2013 Spanish regulators retained some sense of credit control. Moreover, government debt, at 60% of GDP, is at the lower end. That's the cheery view.The pessimists counter that too much of that debt has to be rolled over in a hurry next year. Further, the bottom end of the banking system is rotten and the true scale of property-related losses has yet to be revealed since the pan-European stress tests are discredited.The point is that there is a genuine debate about the state of Spain. Hints from Jean-Claude Trichet suggested the European Central Bank may make a stand against markets by buying up more sovereign debt. There is no guarantee of success, but Spain would be the place to concentrate the firepower.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Euro", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Eurozone's stability depends on pain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-11-30T20:47:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Another day, another opportunity to whack the bonds of the weaklings of the eurozone. Even the Dutch finance minister concedes that it \"could take months\" before stability returns to the eurozone. Behind the broad sweep of pessimism, it is worth thinking about how the \"eurozone in crisis\" story could eventually improve. Spain is the key. If that domino does not fall, the picture could look different in the new year.According to the optimists, Spain should not have to take a trip to the emergency ward. Yes, everybody knows about the recession, the 40% fall in property prices and the 20% rate of unemployment. But, as one old market hand puts it, 20% unemployment in Spain used to be regarded as a normal \u2013 the \"unofficial\" economy makes the true number better. As for the property slump, it is severe, but loan-to-value ratios are not off the scale \u2013 Spanish regulators retained some sense of credit control. Moreover, government debt, at 60% of GDP, is at the lower end. That's the cheery view.The pessimists counter that too much of that debt has to be rolled over in a hurry next year. Further, the bottom end of the banking system is rotten and the true scale of property-related losses has yet to be revealed since the pan-European stress tests are discredited.The point is that there is a genuine debate about the state of Spain. Hints from Jean-Claude Trichet suggested the European Central Bank may make a stand against markets by buying up more sovereign debt. There is no guarantee of success, but Spain would be the place to concentrate the firepower.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Euro", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Eurozone's stability depends on pain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:59:49Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Authorities in Spain were today trying to decide what to do with a 10-year-old girl and the baby she gave birth to last week, admitting they had never before encountered such a young mother.The girl gave birth in a hospital in the southern city of Jerez on 26 October, though the case only came to light today. Doctors remarked that both the girl and her mother, who accompanied her to the hospital, seemed calm about the birth.The young mother was allowed home at the weekend with the healthy 2.9kg (6.4lb) baby, whose father was reported to be an under-age boy.\"The important thing is that both the baby and the mother should be cared for properly,\" said Micaela Navarro, head of the health service in the region of Andaluc\u00eda.\"If that is the case, then they can stay with their family without any problem. That is what we are checking on at the moment. She might be the mother, but she is herself a minor,\" she added.Navarro did not explain why the checks had not been carried out earlier.The Diario de Sevilla newspaper reported that, despite the age of the mother, a caesarean had not been necessary.But doctors warned that pregnancies carried health risks for very young girls. \"At a young age your bones are not even fully formed,\" said Dr Adolfo L\u00f3pez G\u00f3mez of Seville's Sagrado Coraz\u00f3n hospital.\"The high level of hormonal activity caused by a pregnancy can provoke problems.\"Andaluc\u00eda had 177 children born to girls who were 14 or under in 2008 \u2013 though no one can recall a case involving a 10-year-old.Doctors remarked that the baby was welcomed into the new family, who said that childbirth at a young age was not abnormal in their native Romania, according to the local Diario de Jerez newspaper.Spain allows marriage, where a judge deems there are exceptional circumstances, at 14 years old.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "10-year-old gives birth in Spain"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-11-30T20:47:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Another day, another opportunity to whack the bonds of the weaklings of the eurozone. Even the Dutch finance minister concedes that it \"could take months\" before stability returns to the eurozone. Behind the broad sweep of pessimism, it is worth thinking about how the \"eurozone in crisis\" story could eventually improve. Spain is the key. If that domino does not fall, the picture could look different in the new year.According to the optimists, Spain should not have to take a trip to the emergency ward. Yes, everybody knows about the recession, the 40% fall in property prices and the 20% rate of unemployment. But, as one old market hand puts it, 20% unemployment in Spain used to be regarded as a normal \u2013 the \"unofficial\" economy makes the true number better. As for the property slump, it is severe, but loan-to-value ratios are not off the scale \u2013 Spanish regulators retained some sense of credit control. Moreover, government debt, at 60% of GDP, is at the lower end. That's the cheery view.The pessimists counter that too much of that debt has to be rolled over in a hurry next year. Further, the bottom end of the banking system is rotten and the true scale of property-related losses has yet to be revealed since the pan-European stress tests are discredited.The point is that there is a genuine debate about the state of Spain. Hints from Jean-Claude Trichet suggested the European Central Bank may make a stand against markets by buying up more sovereign debt. There is no guarantee of success, but Spain would be the place to concentrate the firepower.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Euro", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Eurozone's stability depends on pain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:59:49Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Authorities in Spain were today trying to decide what to do with a 10-year-old girl and the baby she gave birth to last week, admitting they had never before encountered such a young mother.The girl gave birth in a hospital in the southern city of Jerez on 26 October, though the case only came to light today. Doctors remarked that both the girl and her mother, who accompanied her to the hospital, seemed calm about the birth.The young mother was allowed home at the weekend with the healthy 2.9kg (6.4lb) baby, whose father was reported to be an under-age boy.\"The important thing is that both the baby and the mother should be cared for properly,\" said Micaela Navarro, head of the health service in the region of Andaluc\u00eda.\"If that is the case, then they can stay with their family without any problem. That is what we are checking on at the moment. She might be the mother, but she is herself a minor,\" she added.Navarro did not explain why the checks had not been carried out earlier.The Diario de Sevilla newspaper reported that, despite the age of the mother, a caesarean had not been necessary.But doctors warned that pregnancies carried health risks for very young girls. \"At a young age your bones are not even fully formed,\" said Dr Adolfo L\u00f3pez G\u00f3mez of Seville's Sagrado Coraz\u00f3n hospital.\"The high level of hormonal activity caused by a pregnancy can provoke problems.\"Andaluc\u00eda had 177 children born to girls who were 14 or under in 2008 \u2013 though no one can recall a case involving a 10-year-old.Doctors remarked that the baby was welcomed into the new family, who said that childbirth at a young age was not abnormal in their native Romania, according to the local Diario de Jerez newspaper.Spain allows marriage, where a judge deems there are exceptional circumstances, at 14 years old.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "10-year-old gives birth in Spain"},{"date": "2010-12-28T16:29:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has bolstered its credentials as a world leader in renewable energy by exporting electricity to France for the first time. Heavy rain and strong winds during 2010 meant that renewables - principally hydro, wind and solar power - met 35% of Spanish demand.Wind power rose by 18.5% in 2010 and now meets 16% of demand. Luis Atienza, managing director of Spain's electricity grid, predicted that \"within three years wind power will overtake nuclear as an electricity source\". At its peak, on November 9, wind power met 43% of demand.Heavy rains saw hydro-electrical production rise by 59% on 2009. Solar power, meanwhile, lags behind at only 3%, although some of the big solar plants have yet to come on stream.Oil and gas continue to generate about half of Spain's capacity, while nuclear power accounts for around 19%.Javier Garc\u00eea Breva, director of the solar energy programme, said that \"even five years ago no one would have believed these figures were possible. No one expected renewables to grow so fast. They have unlimited potential.\"Spain continues to import electricity from France but only as a staging post en route to Morocco, Portugal and Andorra. \"France has not increased its capacity and so its ability to export has decreased,\" Atienza said. \"This has fallen further due to industrial strife.\" During recent strikes dozens of French power stations were forced to close and Spanish production had to be imported to meet the shortfall.This greening of the Spanish grid has not benefited the consumer, with prices likely to rise by 9% in 2011. The government sets electricity prices which have no direct correlation with production costs.", "tags": ["Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Wave and tidal power", "Solar power", "Environment", "Spain", "France", "World news", "Energy", "Europe"], "title": "Spain helps out neighbour France in green power surge"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-11-30T20:47:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Another day, another opportunity to whack the bonds of the weaklings of the eurozone. Even the Dutch finance minister concedes that it \"could take months\" before stability returns to the eurozone. Behind the broad sweep of pessimism, it is worth thinking about how the \"eurozone in crisis\" story could eventually improve. Spain is the key. If that domino does not fall, the picture could look different in the new year.According to the optimists, Spain should not have to take a trip to the emergency ward. Yes, everybody knows about the recession, the 40% fall in property prices and the 20% rate of unemployment. But, as one old market hand puts it, 20% unemployment in Spain used to be regarded as a normal \u2013 the \"unofficial\" economy makes the true number better. As for the property slump, it is severe, but loan-to-value ratios are not off the scale \u2013 Spanish regulators retained some sense of credit control. Moreover, government debt, at 60% of GDP, is at the lower end. That's the cheery view.The pessimists counter that too much of that debt has to be rolled over in a hurry next year. Further, the bottom end of the banking system is rotten and the true scale of property-related losses has yet to be revealed since the pan-European stress tests are discredited.The point is that there is a genuine debate about the state of Spain. Hints from Jean-Claude Trichet suggested the European Central Bank may make a stand against markets by buying up more sovereign debt. There is no guarantee of success, but Spain would be the place to concentrate the firepower.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Euro", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Eurozone's stability depends on pain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:59:49Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Authorities in Spain were today trying to decide what to do with a 10-year-old girl and the baby she gave birth to last week, admitting they had never before encountered such a young mother.The girl gave birth in a hospital in the southern city of Jerez on 26 October, though the case only came to light today. Doctors remarked that both the girl and her mother, who accompanied her to the hospital, seemed calm about the birth.The young mother was allowed home at the weekend with the healthy 2.9kg (6.4lb) baby, whose father was reported to be an under-age boy.\"The important thing is that both the baby and the mother should be cared for properly,\" said Micaela Navarro, head of the health service in the region of Andaluc\u00eda.\"If that is the case, then they can stay with their family without any problem. That is what we are checking on at the moment. She might be the mother, but she is herself a minor,\" she added.Navarro did not explain why the checks had not been carried out earlier.The Diario de Sevilla newspaper reported that, despite the age of the mother, a caesarean had not been necessary.But doctors warned that pregnancies carried health risks for very young girls. \"At a young age your bones are not even fully formed,\" said Dr Adolfo L\u00f3pez G\u00f3mez of Seville's Sagrado Coraz\u00f3n hospital.\"The high level of hormonal activity caused by a pregnancy can provoke problems.\"Andaluc\u00eda had 177 children born to girls who were 14 or under in 2008 \u2013 though no one can recall a case involving a 10-year-old.Doctors remarked that the baby was welcomed into the new family, who said that childbirth at a young age was not abnormal in their native Romania, according to the local Diario de Jerez newspaper.Spain allows marriage, where a judge deems there are exceptional circumstances, at 14 years old.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "10-year-old gives birth in Spain"},{"date": "2010-12-28T16:29:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has bolstered its credentials as a world leader in renewable energy by exporting electricity to France for the first time. Heavy rain and strong winds during 2010 meant that renewables - principally hydro, wind and solar power - met 35% of Spanish demand.Wind power rose by 18.5% in 2010 and now meets 16% of demand. Luis Atienza, managing director of Spain's electricity grid, predicted that \"within three years wind power will overtake nuclear as an electricity source\". At its peak, on November 9, wind power met 43% of demand.Heavy rains saw hydro-electrical production rise by 59% on 2009. Solar power, meanwhile, lags behind at only 3%, although some of the big solar plants have yet to come on stream.Oil and gas continue to generate about half of Spain's capacity, while nuclear power accounts for around 19%.Javier Garc\u00eea Breva, director of the solar energy programme, said that \"even five years ago no one would have believed these figures were possible. No one expected renewables to grow so fast. They have unlimited potential.\"Spain continues to import electricity from France but only as a staging post en route to Morocco, Portugal and Andorra. \"France has not increased its capacity and so its ability to export has decreased,\" Atienza said. \"This has fallen further due to industrial strife.\" During recent strikes dozens of French power stations were forced to close and Spanish production had to be imported to meet the shortfall.This greening of the Spanish grid has not benefited the consumer, with prices likely to rise by 9% in 2011. The government sets electricity prices which have no direct correlation with production costs.", "tags": ["Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Wave and tidal power", "Solar power", "Environment", "Spain", "France", "World news", "Energy", "Europe"], "title": "Spain helps out neighbour France in green power surge"},{"date": "2010-12-14T14:01:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Maria Dolores, 40, has short hair, an expressionless face, dark smudges under her eyes and a wry sense of humour no doubt left over from her recent troubles. She takes a black object from her handbag, a little bigger than a mobile phone but much heavier and without a keypad. \"Here it is,\" she says. In the offices of the Centro Mujer 24 Horas, a centre for battered women in Valencia, Loli, as she asks to be called, displays a mixture of pride and anxiety as she shows the GPS device that has stayed with her at all times since June.Night and day, when out for a meal or to see a film, Loli is never without the transmitter-receiver that connects her directly to the national surveillance centre in the suburbs of Madrid. There, they know where she is at all times \u2013 and where her husband is. \"The court decided to give him a chance, but it deprived me of any hope of living in peace,\" Loli says. She never refers to her husband by name, always as \"him\". Juan (as we shall call him) was imprisoned in January after nearly killing her and released on 7\u00a0June. He will be tried next month.When the court authorised Juan's release on parole, it stipulated that he should remain at a safe distance (300 metres) from his wife, requiring him to wear an electronic tag. The system, introduced by Spain in July 2009 to protect the victims of domestic violence, keeps permanent track of victim and assailant, alerting the police in the event of danger.If the battery goes flat, the assailant attempts to remove the tag or tries to enter the victim's safety perimeter, an alarm rings. Loli explains: \"The first time it started ringing, I was on my way to the court in Albacete\", in Castille-La Mancha province, where she was living with Juan and their two children when the assault occurred. \"My whole body started shaking,\" she says. \"Just after that, the phone rang and they told me he was 700 metres away, with the name of the street. I stayed connected until I reached the police station where I was due to meet an officer to accompany me.\"It was the only incident of this sort, but nothing in the world would separate Loli from her GPS protector. \"I hope the people in Madrid keep watch on me round the clock, in fact I would rather they only watched me,\" she adds.Assisted by her counsellor, Loli has decided to tell her story. She wants \"him\" to read this article, to realise what he did and to understand what she has to endure: the fear of sleeping alone, the visits to the psychiatrist and the pills \"to stop the dreams\". In a recurrent nightmare she relives the scene that almost ended in her death, waking up drenched in sweat.On the morning of 5 January, Loli's mother was looking after the couple's two children, aged five and 10, so the parents could clean up their hardware shop in Albacete. The previous summer Loli had told Juan she planned to leave him. Though they slept in different rooms she continued living there, \"for the kids' sake\". \"It was a terrible mistake, but there was no way I could have known. He had never been violent before,\" she explains.To begin with, Juan tried using tears to win her over. Then he switched to emotional blackmail: \"Without you, I'm nothing ... If you leave me, I'll kill myself.\"But that day a new argument broke out. Loli discovered that Juan had opened a bank account in his father's name and transferred part of the family's savings into it. When she told him she wouldn't let him get away with it, he went wild. \"He grabbed a chisel and hacked at my neck,\" she says, showing us the scar on her throat. \"He threw me down and started banging my head on the floor.\"She thought she was going to die, but neighbours heard her cries and alerted a police officer who happened to be passing. They found her on the ground, her husband on top of her, with his knee on her chest. She was rushed to hospital suffering from multiple injuries to the head and neck, two slipped discs and bruises all over her body. \"I looked like a painting by Picasso,\" she says.The court decided to take Juan into custody while the case was investigated. Loli nevertheless moved out with the children and went to live with her mother in Valencia. \"I kept thinking I'd see him wherever I went in Albacete.\" She gradually began to recover, but then Juan was released on 7 June. It was such a shock that she barely heard the instructions given by the engineer who came to her with the GPS phone.She has been under constant surveillance ever since. Loli is adamant: \"If I didn't have the machine I'd never set foot outside the door. It gives me a feeling of security because I know if he comes within 700 metres of me, I'll be warned.\"The surveillance centre receives around 1,200 serious alerts a month (tag removal or safety perimeter intrusion), triggered by the 450 tags currently fitted in Spain, out of a total of 3,000 that the government purchased in 2009. \"We need to improve the courts' appraisal of the risk before enlarging the scope of the system,\" says Miguel Lorente, a ministry specialist on gender-based violence. Since the beginning of the year, 63 women in Spain have been killed by their partners. Fourteen of them had already lodged a complaint with the police, but none of them had received a GPS phone.Loli has decided to apply for a job on the Valencia underground. \"I'd like to sell tickets at the counter,\" she says. But what she means is she wants a protected position, behind security glass \u2013 a dream her psychiatrist finds terribly revealing.Taking its cue from Spain, France is about to start trials of orders requiring violent spouses to wear an electronic tag, and to equip victims with a warning device. \"In France, around 3,600 eviction orders were issued against violent spouses between 2006 and 2008, but it is difficult to keep track of them,\" France's former secretary of state for family affairs, Nadine Morano, said. \"As a result the women are\u00a0not safe.\"In 2008, 157 women were killed by their partners. \"In many cases murder is the culmination of ongoing assault,\" a parliamentary committee of inquiry reported last year. French homes are more dangerous for women than public spaces, but incidents are often not reported. According to the 2001 National Survey of Violence Inflicted on Women, only 13% of incidents at home are reported, compared with 32% for workplace violence and 43% for assaults in public places.Anne Chemin This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Domestic violence", "Gender", "Spain", "France", "World news", "Society", "Europe"], "title": "Spain uses GPS trackers to protect women from domestic violence"},{"date": "2010-12-23T11:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This is a busy time of year for families and workers in olive producing regions of the northern hemisphere. They'll have been out - or, depending on exactly where they are, face the prospect of going out - whatever the weather, for the annual harvest, carefully collecting olives at exactly the moment of ripeness. We unleashed Tim Hayward upon one such family - the Valentinos in Tuscany - armed with a treeshaker and boundless enthusiasm in relentless rain; you can see a video of their olive oil operation here, a simple but effective process that likely hasn't changed in decades. Watching it took me back to an olive harvest I attended last season in Andalucia, a gentler affair where everything is done painstakingly by hand. The olives being picked were destined for the table, and so far no-one has come up with a mechanical system that doesn't bruise the fruit; less of a problem, presumably, for olives that are headed for crushers and bottles.Just outside Seville, in one of the many groves that populate the region, we joined lines of workers on their knees, placing plump green gordals and manzanillas into esparto grass baskets. While this is an appealing image for marketeers and gourmet store botherers, the manual, time-consuming nature of the labour is an expensive problem for Spanish growers, who are keen to sell more of the 500,000 tonnes of olives they produce annually to the likes of you and me.As far as I'm concerned, if they keep stuffing them with anchovies and shipping them over here, I'll keep eating them, though I was told as a nation we're more avid consumers of capsicum-stuffed olives than other types. At a factory in Seville where the stuffing and bottling takes place, long tape-like strips of pimento paste stream into millions of manzanillas. Others take garlic, almonds, cornichons, jalape\u00f1o, cheese, capers, or salmon; with over 50 varieties of filling, it seems we all love a stuffed olive, and have since the practice began in the 18th century.Before stuffing, the fruit spends three months fermenting in brine to remove the bitterness and break down the sugar, a technique favoured over dry curing in salt, or the oil- or water-based methods used elsewhere (if you're lucky enough to have access to a productive olive tree, you could always have a go at curing your own). And then there were green olives undergoing oxidation to turn them black, a technique apparently invented for aesthetic reasons in California where they fancied the look of them on their pizzas. This process, to my mind, adds nothing to the olive's flavour and the product is not to be confused with stronger, ripe black olives such as the Greek kalamata.The Spanish eat around 40% of their olive crop themselves and desperately need to increase the amount they export. But while Spain is the world's leading table olive producer, industry insiders worry that the rest of the world has no idea of this prolific production. Why is this? \"We're not Italians\" one producer said to me, by way of explanation, referring to the confidence with which the Italians effectively promote their foods and way of life.I wonder if he's right. It's certainly true that a large proportion of the jarred, canned olives bought in supermarkets in the UK originate in Spain, but I'm not sure how much thought the average shopper gives to provenance. Preparation and presentation is all-important, not only the crucial question of the stuffing, but the accompanying herbs and spices, whether they're sitting in brine, marinated in oil, with stones or pitted, whether they come jarred, canned, in small packets or in tubs from a deli counter. (The latter is the best way to taste them, not only because the quality tends to be higher and you can make sure you're buying undamaged fruit with firm flesh, but you can usually ask to try a few different types before you buy.)I buy fresh olives with the stones still in for greater flavour, but I also like to have a standby jar I can graze on for months, like these beauties from Olives Et Al dressed in oil and lemon. I've since noticed they do come from Spain, but it wasn't a deciding factor when I bought them. How about you? Do you seek out small tender manzanillas, fleshy queens stuffed with a favourite filling, or do you favour the Greek kalamata, the strong flavour of a salt-cured Italian Gaeta or meaty Cerignola? And what do the majority of us buy them for? For me, cooking with olives used to be limited to pizza toppings and salads, but as well as throwing together a simple tapenade these days I often use them in cooking. One of my standby week night dishes is based on a fish parcel recipe from the fantastic Leon cookbook, featuring fennel, mushrooms and tarragon. Black olives are what really make this dish fly. And chef, Jose Pizarro, the ambassador for Olives from Spain, has given us a couple of recipes featuring the versatile fruit - sea bass with a fennel and olive salad, and one for lamb chops with an olive and anchovy marinade that I'm particularly keen to try. Olives do seem to pair particularly well with fish dishes. Any other suggestions?", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Olives from Spain. Ol\u00e9!"},{"date": "2010-12-04T00:05:26Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My sister phones from Chippenham. \"Do you know where they are exactly?\" When I name some far-flung place with a strong anti-western stance, she pauses for a moment, then says: \"Do you think they're going to be all right? How long are they going for this time\"?I give all the information I can and make soothing noises. We are not talking about a team of war correspondents or adventurous and irresponsible teenagers on their gap-year. We're talking about my parents and step-parents (my mother and father both have long and successful second marriages), all in their early 70s. They are better at giving us their itineraries now, but a couple of times in the past they forgot to say that they were even going away.None of them seem particularly interested in what I would consider to be more age-appropriate tours through the chateaus of the Loire, the hilltop towns of Tuscany or the monasteries of northern Spain. And I can confidently say that they would all rather be dead then go on any sort of cruise. In the last couple of years, they have seemed to be racing against each other to fit in as many interesting, obscure and possibly dangerous destinations as they can before their health declines or money runs out. In the last two years, my father and stepmother have travelled to Armenia, South Africa, Peru, and Costa Rica, and are planning a trip to Ethiopia in the New Year. But it's my mother who has the most chronic wanderlust \u2013 a restlessness and curiosity that seems insatiable.It seems to us, her grown-up children and her pretty grown-up grandchildren, that she is always either packing or unpacking the little blue suitcase that lies ready for action on the sofa in her bedroom. Each fascinating place only gives her a greater appetite to see the next ancient and hard-to-reach location, accompanied either by my geologist stepfather or her great friend Annette. In the last few years she has visited Georgia, Uzbekistan, Syria and south-east Asia.Her trip to Algeria was the most worrying for my brother who was worried about terrorist bomb attacks, whereas I had a gnawing anxiety the whole time she was in Iran, fearing she would be kidnapped. An Iranian friend of mine once asked: \"Why on earth does your mother want to go there?\" Not long ago, I heard her say how interested she would be to see the sites in Iraq. She is off to Burma next: the trip was organised as soon as Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest.She knows that we are proud of her, and not resentful of her time away because when she is home she is such an attentive mother and grandparent, but apart from telling her off when she forgot to tell us she was going, we haven't really mentioned, till recently, how we feel about her adventurous travel. She seems quite surprised when I tell her that we all worry about her choice of destinations. Paul and Rachel Chandler, the couple who were recently released after months being held captive by Somali pirates, were \u2013 like my mother \u2013 intrepid, experienced travellers. They got into trouble despite hanging around in port for months before being told the sea was \"too rough for pirates\" and that it would be safe for them to set sail.My mother says that the Chandlers' situation did get her thinking \u2013 perhaps for the first time \u2013 how it might be for the family back home if something happened to her. But she says that for herself she never feels nervous about possible danger \"except in the Villarica volcano in Chile a couple of years ago where I went ice climbing and lost my nerve when I saw that other people had fallen. Then I thought what an earth are you doing you silly old bat?\" She thinks that being in her 70s has decreased, rather than increased, the risk of something happening, and has made her much more able to cope with bad situations. \"You become less visible as you get older as a woman. I am harassed far, far less than I was when I was young, and I think you probably are much less panicky and experienced in dealing with people as you reach my age.\"She doesn't like to go in organised groups but arranges everything herself \u2013 accommodation, guide and route. \"You discover so much more about the way people live and the culture when you are not being herded around by some travel company,\" as she puts it. \"I wouldn't want to be lumped with lots of older people either because they would really slow you down.\"She accepts that some places, such as the north and south poles, can only be visited in a group. Not surprisingly, it is to my mother that my 20-year-old son went for advice about mosquito nets, vaccinations, outdoor and sub-zero gear and how to keep out of trouble when he went around South America. For herself, she says she has absolutely no fear of what might happen to her because she would much rather \"die chained to a radiator somewhere fascinating than die in an old people's home in Bournemouth\".I try to persuade her that there is a middle ground between those two fates but I can tell she is not convinced. My mother has been interested in travel since she was a girl in Ayrshire, and her grandmother, who had been a friend of Captain Scott's wife, gave her books about Antarctica \u2013 a place my mother plans to see in the next year or so. Although most of her family was not interested even in going across the border to England, she devoured a children's book series about different explorers called Travels With \u2026The first big trip she went on with my father was in a Volkswagen across Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan in their early 20s. \"Looking back, that does seem mad,\" she agrees. \"I remember a particularly hairy time on a mountain top in Afghanistan where we were surrounded by hostile, bearded men.\"After she married my geologist stepfather she sometimes went on digs with him to Qatar, and we all travelled together round Mexico and Turkey in a Land Rover, long before it became popular with tourists. I remember being mobbed and stoned a couple of times by children who were startled by our blond hair and western clothes. In the years that followed, looking after us and holding down a job as a teacher thwarted her wilder yearning for travel, and although she did go to Russia with my godmother when I was in my last year at primary school, most of our holidays were spent in Scotland, Suffolk and France. It has only been since she retired that she has really taken off again.\"I'll keep all the low-key, easy travelling stuff for when I'm really doddery,\" she says. Interestingly, my mother's devil-may-care outlook doesn't extend to her children. In my gap year, she forbade me to go to India because, \"For pretty girls, it is an absolute nightmare.\" So while friends went to Sri Lanka, South Korea and Thailand, I studied Italian in Florence. When I raise this, she says she still thinks it was a bad idea. \"I'd have been so worried about you, darling. Aren't you glad you didn't go? It would have been terrible at that age. You wouldn't have been allowed to move.\"I regret obeying her, but the truth is that although I like visiting places I don't have Mum's fearlessness and explorative spirit. Compared with her, I am a bit of a travel lightweight. Of course I don't have the time or the means to travel as she does just now, but I am not sure if I will ever be as brave as she is. When I did go further afield and took my family to Sri Lanka, we got caught up in the 2005 tsunami. This has fuelled her feeling that although she is immune to danger, we shouldn't go much further from London than Cornwall. In fact, even Cornwall is a bit far. She sighs and looks worried when I tell her that the children are going surfing again. \"I\u00a0know it's hypocritical,\" she says, \"but I would really prefer it if you and\u00a0the children went to Dorset every\u00a0summer.\"", "tags": ["Family", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Older people", "Society", "Life and style", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Burma! Why not Spain, Mum?"},{"date": "2010-12-28T14:09:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The snow that falls on the Sierra Nevada each year is vital for the economy of Granada, bringing skiers in their thousands and providing a substantial winter income for hotels, restaurants and shops as well as the ski station itself. If not enough snow falls, machines that can manufacture artificial snow are brought in to ensure business as usual.When it melts, snow feeds the rivers and fills the irrigation channels built by the Moors to water the land. But for centuries, snow from the mountains played another essential role: keeping the city cool in summer. Before the days of refrigeration, teams of men would set out to climb the peaks of the Sierra Nevada to provide the city with ice.Being mostly illiterate, these men left no account of their expeditions. It was the botanists and later travellers in the 19th century who documented their encounters with the \"snowmen\". They described how the men would set out in the early hours, accompanied by mules, and climb steadily until late afternoon, singing as they walked; and how in the summer months they would have to ascend the very highest peaks \u2013 well over 3,000 metres \u2013 to find enough snow.Then they would set to work with picks and shovels, filling their panniers with up to 150kg of snow. At sunset they would begin the long trek down, covering the panniers with blankets to stop the snow melting. By dawn the men would be back in Granada, where the ice-sellers could begin their distribution.Our local walking group was given the task of marking the \"path of the snowmen\" for other walkers. However, unlike them, we could catch a bus to the top, and our 24km descent started below the actual peaks. With a round trip of 50km, they would have been walking for around 18 hours.They were essential for hundreds of years. The first blow came when the local council monopolised and sold off what was once a free activity \u2013 the right to extract snow from the Sierra Nevada and sell it. Then in the early 20th century, an ice factory was established in the city. Cheap artificial ice-cubes replaced the snow.The Sierra Nevada is now a national park, and the path taken for centuries by the snowmen is used instead by walkers for recreation \u2013 to enable them to enjoy the spectacular scenery.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Spain: Ice-cold tales of Granada's 'snowmen'"},{"date": "2010-11-30T20:47:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Another day, another opportunity to whack the bonds of the weaklings of the eurozone. Even the Dutch finance minister concedes that it \"could take months\" before stability returns to the eurozone. Behind the broad sweep of pessimism, it is worth thinking about how the \"eurozone in crisis\" story could eventually improve. Spain is the key. If that domino does not fall, the picture could look different in the new year.According to the optimists, Spain should not have to take a trip to the emergency ward. Yes, everybody knows about the recession, the 40% fall in property prices and the 20% rate of unemployment. But, as one old market hand puts it, 20% unemployment in Spain used to be regarded as a normal \u2013 the \"unofficial\" economy makes the true number better. As for the property slump, it is severe, but loan-to-value ratios are not off the scale \u2013 Spanish regulators retained some sense of credit control. Moreover, government debt, at 60% of GDP, is at the lower end. That's the cheery view.The pessimists counter that too much of that debt has to be rolled over in a hurry next year. Further, the bottom end of the banking system is rotten and the true scale of property-related losses has yet to be revealed since the pan-European stress tests are discredited.The point is that there is a genuine debate about the state of Spain. Hints from Jean-Claude Trichet suggested the European Central Bank may make a stand against markets by buying up more sovereign debt. There is no guarantee of success, but Spain would be the place to concentrate the firepower.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Euro", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Eurozone's stability depends on pain in Spain"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:59:49Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Authorities in Spain were today trying to decide what to do with a 10-year-old girl and the baby she gave birth to last week, admitting they had never before encountered such a young mother.The girl gave birth in a hospital in the southern city of Jerez on 26 October, though the case only came to light today. Doctors remarked that both the girl and her mother, who accompanied her to the hospital, seemed calm about the birth.The young mother was allowed home at the weekend with the healthy 2.9kg (6.4lb) baby, whose father was reported to be an under-age boy.\"The important thing is that both the baby and the mother should be cared for properly,\" said Micaela Navarro, head of the health service in the region of Andaluc\u00eda.\"If that is the case, then they can stay with their family without any problem. That is what we are checking on at the moment. She might be the mother, but she is herself a minor,\" she added.Navarro did not explain why the checks had not been carried out earlier.The Diario de Sevilla newspaper reported that, despite the age of the mother, a caesarean had not been necessary.But doctors warned that pregnancies carried health risks for very young girls. \"At a young age your bones are not even fully formed,\" said Dr Adolfo L\u00f3pez G\u00f3mez of Seville's Sagrado Coraz\u00f3n hospital.\"The high level of hormonal activity caused by a pregnancy can provoke problems.\"Andaluc\u00eda had 177 children born to girls who were 14 or under in 2008 \u2013 though no one can recall a case involving a 10-year-old.Doctors remarked that the baby was welcomed into the new family, who said that childbirth at a young age was not abnormal in their native Romania, according to the local Diario de Jerez newspaper.Spain allows marriage, where a judge deems there are exceptional circumstances, at 14 years old.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "10-year-old gives birth in Spain"},{"date": "2010-12-28T16:29:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has bolstered its credentials as a world leader in renewable energy by exporting electricity to France for the first time. Heavy rain and strong winds during 2010 meant that renewables - principally hydro, wind and solar power - met 35% of Spanish demand.Wind power rose by 18.5% in 2010 and now meets 16% of demand. Luis Atienza, managing director of Spain's electricity grid, predicted that \"within three years wind power will overtake nuclear as an electricity source\". At its peak, on November 9, wind power met 43% of demand.Heavy rains saw hydro-electrical production rise by 59% on 2009. Solar power, meanwhile, lags behind at only 3%, although some of the big solar plants have yet to come on stream.Oil and gas continue to generate about half of Spain's capacity, while nuclear power accounts for around 19%.Javier Garc\u00eea Breva, director of the solar energy programme, said that \"even five years ago no one would have believed these figures were possible. No one expected renewables to grow so fast. They have unlimited potential.\"Spain continues to import electricity from France but only as a staging post en route to Morocco, Portugal and Andorra. \"France has not increased its capacity and so its ability to export has decreased,\" Atienza said. \"This has fallen further due to industrial strife.\" During recent strikes dozens of French power stations were forced to close and Spanish production had to be imported to meet the shortfall.This greening of the Spanish grid has not benefited the consumer, with prices likely to rise by 9% in 2011. The government sets electricity prices which have no direct correlation with production costs.", "tags": ["Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Wave and tidal power", "Solar power", "Environment", "Spain", "France", "World news", "Energy", "Europe"], "title": "Spain helps out neighbour France in green power surge"},{"date": "2010-12-14T14:01:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Maria Dolores, 40, has short hair, an expressionless face, dark smudges under her eyes and a wry sense of humour no doubt left over from her recent troubles. She takes a black object from her handbag, a little bigger than a mobile phone but much heavier and without a keypad. \"Here it is,\" she says. In the offices of the Centro Mujer 24 Horas, a centre for battered women in Valencia, Loli, as she asks to be called, displays a mixture of pride and anxiety as she shows the GPS device that has stayed with her at all times since June.Night and day, when out for a meal or to see a film, Loli is never without the transmitter-receiver that connects her directly to the national surveillance centre in the suburbs of Madrid. There, they know where she is at all times \u2013 and where her husband is. \"The court decided to give him a chance, but it deprived me of any hope of living in peace,\" Loli says. She never refers to her husband by name, always as \"him\". Juan (as we shall call him) was imprisoned in January after nearly killing her and released on 7\u00a0June. He will be tried next month.When the court authorised Juan's release on parole, it stipulated that he should remain at a safe distance (300 metres) from his wife, requiring him to wear an electronic tag. The system, introduced by Spain in July 2009 to protect the victims of domestic violence, keeps permanent track of victim and assailant, alerting the police in the event of danger.If the battery goes flat, the assailant attempts to remove the tag or tries to enter the victim's safety perimeter, an alarm rings. Loli explains: \"The first time it started ringing, I was on my way to the court in Albacete\", in Castille-La Mancha province, where she was living with Juan and their two children when the assault occurred. \"My whole body started shaking,\" she says. \"Just after that, the phone rang and they told me he was 700 metres away, with the name of the street. I stayed connected until I reached the police station where I was due to meet an officer to accompany me.\"It was the only incident of this sort, but nothing in the world would separate Loli from her GPS protector. \"I hope the people in Madrid keep watch on me round the clock, in fact I would rather they only watched me,\" she adds.Assisted by her counsellor, Loli has decided to tell her story. She wants \"him\" to read this article, to realise what he did and to understand what she has to endure: the fear of sleeping alone, the visits to the psychiatrist and the pills \"to stop the dreams\". In a recurrent nightmare she relives the scene that almost ended in her death, waking up drenched in sweat.On the morning of 5 January, Loli's mother was looking after the couple's two children, aged five and 10, so the parents could clean up their hardware shop in Albacete. The previous summer Loli had told Juan she planned to leave him. Though they slept in different rooms she continued living there, \"for the kids' sake\". \"It was a terrible mistake, but there was no way I could have known. He had never been violent before,\" she explains.To begin with, Juan tried using tears to win her over. Then he switched to emotional blackmail: \"Without you, I'm nothing ... If you leave me, I'll kill myself.\"But that day a new argument broke out. Loli discovered that Juan had opened a bank account in his father's name and transferred part of the family's savings into it. When she told him she wouldn't let him get away with it, he went wild. \"He grabbed a chisel and hacked at my neck,\" she says, showing us the scar on her throat. \"He threw me down and started banging my head on the floor.\"She thought she was going to die, but neighbours heard her cries and alerted a police officer who happened to be passing. They found her on the ground, her husband on top of her, with his knee on her chest. She was rushed to hospital suffering from multiple injuries to the head and neck, two slipped discs and bruises all over her body. \"I looked like a painting by Picasso,\" she says.The court decided to take Juan into custody while the case was investigated. Loli nevertheless moved out with the children and went to live with her mother in Valencia. \"I kept thinking I'd see him wherever I went in Albacete.\" She gradually began to recover, but then Juan was released on 7 June. It was such a shock that she barely heard the instructions given by the engineer who came to her with the GPS phone.She has been under constant surveillance ever since. Loli is adamant: \"If I didn't have the machine I'd never set foot outside the door. It gives me a feeling of security because I know if he comes within 700 metres of me, I'll be warned.\"The surveillance centre receives around 1,200 serious alerts a month (tag removal or safety perimeter intrusion), triggered by the 450 tags currently fitted in Spain, out of a total of 3,000 that the government purchased in 2009. \"We need to improve the courts' appraisal of the risk before enlarging the scope of the system,\" says Miguel Lorente, a ministry specialist on gender-based violence. Since the beginning of the year, 63 women in Spain have been killed by their partners. Fourteen of them had already lodged a complaint with the police, but none of them had received a GPS phone.Loli has decided to apply for a job on the Valencia underground. \"I'd like to sell tickets at the counter,\" she says. But what she means is she wants a protected position, behind security glass \u2013 a dream her psychiatrist finds terribly revealing.Taking its cue from Spain, France is about to start trials of orders requiring violent spouses to wear an electronic tag, and to equip victims with a warning device. \"In France, around 3,600 eviction orders were issued against violent spouses between 2006 and 2008, but it is difficult to keep track of them,\" France's former secretary of state for family affairs, Nadine Morano, said. \"As a result the women are\u00a0not safe.\"In 2008, 157 women were killed by their partners. \"In many cases murder is the culmination of ongoing assault,\" a parliamentary committee of inquiry reported last year. French homes are more dangerous for women than public spaces, but incidents are often not reported. According to the 2001 National Survey of Violence Inflicted on Women, only 13% of incidents at home are reported, compared with 32% for workplace violence and 43% for assaults in public places.Anne Chemin This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Domestic violence", "Gender", "Spain", "France", "World news", "Society", "Europe"], "title": "Spain uses GPS trackers to protect women from domestic violence"},{"date": "2010-12-18T00:07:22Z", "country": "spain", "content": "How about this for an auspicious start to the festive season? My husband of 19 years \u2013 partner for 24 and father of my two children \u2013 told me that he wished he was married to a different kind of woman.I was shocked and outraged. I had no intention of becoming a different type of woman. What was required, it was clear to me, was that he become a different type of man \u2013 one who appreciated his wife!So I was off. But not to the divorce lawyer. I was flying away to southern Spain, to the Alpujarra valley in Andaluc\u00eda, for a course called the Power of Connection. Having already done a few courses with the organisers, a self-help charity called More to Life, I'd learned that holding my tongue has its benefits and that there was perhaps a different solution.I first heard about More To Life from my sister, who said she'd moved on more during a weekend course with them than she had in five years of therapy. I had chosen this particular course for its promise to make me a \"more caring friend, more loving partner, more successful parent, and a more fulfilled individual\" \u2013 all particularly valuable at Christmas time.I was met at Malaga airport by Alan, one half of Alan and Tina, More to Life veterans who moved to the Alpujarras, south of the Sierra Nevada, two-and-a-half years ago. They helped the teacher, Louise Smith, convert what has hitherto been taught as a three-day course at locations all over Britain into a week-long holiday.A stunning two-hour drive along the coast and into the winding Alpujarra valley brought us to the far side of Orgiva, a town of Spanish families and middle-aged hippies.A couple of miles off the main road was La Cuesta del Almendral (the Almond Grove), our delightful home for the week, with six terracotta-floored bedrooms. Mine had a balcony overlooking a bougainvillea-edged garden, the swimming pool beyond and a heart-stopping mountain backdrop. Welcome dinner was in Tina and Alan's house next door, Cortijo Caliz, where we feasted on chicken casserole, figs from their garden in syrup and a light spongy goat's cheese.Over the next six days, the six of us on the course, plus Louise and her helper, Jane, alternated between days in the \"classroom\" \u2013 a large, oval, airy, wooden yoga hut \u2013 and days \"off\". In the first session, Louise talked about different realities and I came to see how I express my \"reality\" (my thoughts, feelings, desires) very freely \u2013 dogmatically, some would say \u2013 while my husband expresses his quietly \u2013 or manipulatively, as I have been known to view it. I vowed to try harder to tune in to his reality.At the next session, Louise showed us how to do this, using \"playback\" and \"reflect back\", techniques whereby the listener repeats exactly the words the other person is using and thinks about what they might be feeling. I tried it on my husband that evening on the phone and, remarkably, he didn't spot it or ask why I was parroting him. He said things at home had been pretty stressful: he wasn't feeling well, he'd been late to work several mornings because of getting the children ready and he'd had to sort out extra childcare because our daughter's school closed early.Instead of raising my eyebrows in a \"now you know what I have to deal with\" kind of way, or getting defensive about the fact I'd swanned off to Spain for a week, I listened attentively and repeated back to him what he'd just said to me. Actually, he continued, although it was stressful, he was feeling more in touch with the children than he did when I was around. Wow! (I didn't say that though; I simply repeated his words back to him again.)Finally, he said, he realised that when I was there he abdicated responsibility for them to me. I'm ashamed to say that hallelujahs rang out loudly in my mind.Triumphalism, of course, has no part in improving relationships. It's a form of judgment which, along with demands, wreaks havoc in communication, as we came to see later in the week when we wrote down our thoughts. I wrote that my husband should want to be with me, be home for the family meal on time, be more loving and respect the things that matter to me. If he doesn't do these things, he is unloving, uncaring, not devoted, the wrong person for me.On paper, these statements glared back at me. As Louise pointed out, our \"shoulds\" turn us into dictators, and when we decide that other people are or are not something, as if this is the absolute truth about them, we are condemning them, playing God.My feelings alternate between anger and sadness when I have these thoughts. And distinguishing thoughts and beliefs from feelings is, I learn, key to improving our emotional health. Thoughts and beliefs go on in our minds and are often wrong or unverifiable, while feelings happen in our bodies and are always real. It's a revelation to me \u2013 somebody who lives pretty much in her head \u2013 and a relief to get in touch with my feelings.I did a fair bit of crying in that yoga hut \u2013 something I would once have been embarrassed to admit to but now regard as a mark of my progress in self-awareness. I can't really remember exactly what Louise did or said that carried me gently down this route, but witnessing her do it with others was mesmerising. Permitting your feelings while challenging your thinking is central to the More to Life experience, a blend of western psychotherapy and eastern spiritual traditions.I had intended, on free days, to yomp off into the Alpujarras, but the wisdom on offer around the pool, cradled as it was by the mountain scenery, was the greater lure.Most of us sprawled on sunbeds with our course files, doing our homework exercises or retreating to nooks and crannies in the grounds in pairs to practise our new communication techniques. Louise and Jane were among us, chatting and guiding, lightly or in-depth, whatever the mood required. Jane sat with one participant for several hours. And from time to time, the absurdity of some thoughts became a source of entertainment.One participant, who wanted to form a closer relationship with her sister, was doing an exercise writing down all the things she resented her for. She suddenly burst out laughing then read out, as best she could, mid-hilarity: \"I resent my sister for crying when she was a baby when I put her little finger in a pencil sharpener and turned it.\"I was one of only three people to put my hand up for a midweek trip to the Alhambra \u2013 an hour away by bus \u2013 but was not massively disappointed to hear it was fully booked. Instead, most of us headed into Orgiva and sat outside a bar watching a busy market and listening to each other's life stories. Nobody seemed to want to get away from the group.As the week went on, I became aware of how peaceful I felt. And I\u00a0knew it wasn't just the beautiful scenery and warm sunshine. I'd never met most of the people there before but I was listening, really listening, to what they had to say. Without judgments and without demands. And\u00a0they were listening to me. The urge I usually have to butt in with my\u00a0thoughts and opinions \u2013 and, worse, summary and analysis \u2013 evaporated. This was connection \u2013 with their reality. And I was connecting\u00a0to something in myself, my\u00a0humanity perhaps.Maybe my husband will get his wish, for I definitely feel I returned home a different kind of woman: one ready to embrace not just his reality but those of the whole family \u2013 realities which, for many, explode into catastrophic conflict at Christmas.\u2022 The Power of Connection one-week course runs in Spain from 23 April and 24 September 2011. It costs \u00a3995, including seven nights full-board and transfers, but not flights. More information at consciouschange.co.uk/change/2011-schedule/connect-in-spain, or from Louise Smith on 07767 484102. Information on other More to Life courses from 020-7431 0922, moretolife.org. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Malaga from Belfast, Bristol, Glasgow, Liverpool, Gatwick, Luton, Manchester, Newcastle and Stansted from \u00a326 return ", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Travel", "Health and fitness holidays", "Relationships", "Christmas and New Year holidays"], "title": "Goodwill hunting: learning the power of connection in Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-01-29T15:05:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It has become fashionable since Spain's economy began to decline to make comparisons to Germany, which is rebounding strongly. The idea is that the Germans went through their restructuring, got organised labour under control, and thereby made their economy more competitive. According to this narrative, this is the key to their economic success \u2013 so Spain should do the same, if the Spanish economy is to recover.This fits well with various stereotypes of Germans as disciplined and hardworking, willing to do what is necessary to be competitive in the global economy, while their counterparts in Europe's periphery are seen as undisciplined and indulgent. But the story does not fit the economic facts very well.Spain's problems are mostly associated with the euro, combined with some bad economic policy decisions that have nothing to do with \"labour inflexibility\", the strength of unions or government spending. And its recovery is being delayed as a result of decisions made by the European authorities: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).When Spain joined the euro in 1999, its level of productivity in manufacturing was about 63.6% of Germany's. Over the next 10 years, productivity grew at about the same rate in both countries, so that by 2009, the ratio was about the same: 63%. Hourly wages in manufacturing also increased by about the same amount in both countries, so Germany kept its large, productivity-based cost advantage over Spain. Of course, this arrangement has worked out much better for Germany \u2013 during the upswing from 2002-2007, more than 120% of Germany's growth was due to exports \u2013 with most of these exports going to other eurozone countries.This is the basic problem when a country decides to adopt a common currency with other countries that have much higher levels of productivity. They can't really be competitive in tradable goods \u2013 which includes not only exports, but also industries that compete with imports. If Spain had its own currency, it could let the value of its currency fall to a level that would make the country's tradable goods sectors competitive. In a situation where the economy is in recession or is weak \u2013 Spain's economy shrank by 0.2% in 2010 \u2013 the increased exports and reduced imports from such a devaluation would also help get the economy growing again. Instead, the European authorities have prescribed what is called an \"internal devaluation\" \u2013 shrink the economy and raise unemployment enough so that the country can become competitive, through lower prices and wages, without changing the exchange rate (that is, keeping the euro). Unemployment in Spain is now 20%, and although exports have picked up some over the last year or so, it is not nearly enough to pull the economy out of its slump. Spain needs expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to boost the economy. But monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank \u2013 which, just last week, announced that it may raise interest rates, despite Europe's anemic recovery and crushing unemployment in the eurozone's weakest economies (Spain, Ireland, Portugal).Expansionary fiscal policy is prohibited by pressure from the European authorities \u2013 which are actually pushing Spain to do the opposite; in other words, cut spending and raise taxes \u2013 and the fact that, not having its own monetary policy, Spain cannot engage in \"quantitative easing\", as the US has done recently, or Japan has done for decades, to finance government spending without adding to the country's net debt burden.Now back to Spain's decade of experience with the euro. The adoption of the euro opened up a period of bubble growth, with big capital inflows from other European countries, and the country experienced a vast runup in the stock market and a huge housing bubble. Spain's economy grew by a third between 1999 and 2007, and its net debt fell to just 26.5% of GDP in 2007. But this was bubble-driven growth: the stock market peaked at 125% of GDP in November 2007 and dropped to 54% of GDP a year later. A housing bubble increased construction from 7.5% to 10.8% of GDP (2000-2006), and housing starts dropped by 87% once the bubble burst.It was the bursting of these bubbles, and not any lax spending policies by the government, that crashed Spain's economy and caused its budget troubles. And it is Spain's subordination to the European authorities that prohibits it from using any of the three most important macroeconomic policies \u2013 fiscal, monetary and exchange rate \u2013 to get out of its slump. Furthermore, although it was theoretically possible for Spain to have narrowed the productivity gap with Germany (since it was starting out at a much lower level of productivity), the bubble-driven growth of the last decade, spurred by the adoption of the euro and large capital inflows, is not the kind of growth that drives up manufacturing productivity.So, the neoliberals have it backwards: it is the neoliberal macroeconomic policies, locked in with the euro, that are the source of both its recession and continuing troubles. Spain should refuse to accept any policies that prolong its slump and prevent it from reducing unemployment. If that means restructuring its debt or even leaving the euro, then these options should be on the table in any negotiations with the European authorities. These choices would better than suffering through many more years of sluggish growth and high unemployment.", "tags": ["Spain", "Economic policy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Economics", "World news", "Financial crisis", "Currencies", "US news", "Quantitative easing", "Housing market", "Europe", "Austerity"], "title": "Spain, hostage to the eurozone | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-01-29T15:05:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It has become fashionable since Spain's economy began to decline to make comparisons to Germany, which is rebounding strongly. The idea is that the Germans went through their restructuring, got organised labour under control, and thereby made their economy more competitive. According to this narrative, this is the key to their economic success \u2013 so Spain should do the same, if the Spanish economy is to recover.This fits well with various stereotypes of Germans as disciplined and hardworking, willing to do what is necessary to be competitive in the global economy, while their counterparts in Europe's periphery are seen as undisciplined and indulgent. But the story does not fit the economic facts very well.Spain's problems are mostly associated with the euro, combined with some bad economic policy decisions that have nothing to do with \"labour inflexibility\", the strength of unions or government spending. And its recovery is being delayed as a result of decisions made by the European authorities: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).When Spain joined the euro in 1999, its level of productivity in manufacturing was about 63.6% of Germany's. Over the next 10 years, productivity grew at about the same rate in both countries, so that by 2009, the ratio was about the same: 63%. Hourly wages in manufacturing also increased by about the same amount in both countries, so Germany kept its large, productivity-based cost advantage over Spain. Of course, this arrangement has worked out much better for Germany \u2013 during the upswing from 2002-2007, more than 120% of Germany's growth was due to exports \u2013 with most of these exports going to other eurozone countries.This is the basic problem when a country decides to adopt a common currency with other countries that have much higher levels of productivity. They can't really be competitive in tradable goods \u2013 which includes not only exports, but also industries that compete with imports. If Spain had its own currency, it could let the value of its currency fall to a level that would make the country's tradable goods sectors competitive. In a situation where the economy is in recession or is weak \u2013 Spain's economy shrank by 0.2% in 2010 \u2013 the increased exports and reduced imports from such a devaluation would also help get the economy growing again. Instead, the European authorities have prescribed what is called an \"internal devaluation\" \u2013 shrink the economy and raise unemployment enough so that the country can become competitive, through lower prices and wages, without changing the exchange rate (that is, keeping the euro). Unemployment in Spain is now 20%, and although exports have picked up some over the last year or so, it is not nearly enough to pull the economy out of its slump. Spain needs expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to boost the economy. But monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank \u2013 which, just last week, announced that it may raise interest rates, despite Europe's anemic recovery and crushing unemployment in the eurozone's weakest economies (Spain, Ireland, Portugal).Expansionary fiscal policy is prohibited by pressure from the European authorities \u2013 which are actually pushing Spain to do the opposite; in other words, cut spending and raise taxes \u2013 and the fact that, not having its own monetary policy, Spain cannot engage in \"quantitative easing\", as the US has done recently, or Japan has done for decades, to finance government spending without adding to the country's net debt burden.Now back to Spain's decade of experience with the euro. The adoption of the euro opened up a period of bubble growth, with big capital inflows from other European countries, and the country experienced a vast runup in the stock market and a huge housing bubble. Spain's economy grew by a third between 1999 and 2007, and its net debt fell to just 26.5% of GDP in 2007. But this was bubble-driven growth: the stock market peaked at 125% of GDP in November 2007 and dropped to 54% of GDP a year later. A housing bubble increased construction from 7.5% to 10.8% of GDP (2000-2006), and housing starts dropped by 87% once the bubble burst.It was the bursting of these bubbles, and not any lax spending policies by the government, that crashed Spain's economy and caused its budget troubles. And it is Spain's subordination to the European authorities that prohibits it from using any of the three most important macroeconomic policies \u2013 fiscal, monetary and exchange rate \u2013 to get out of its slump. Furthermore, although it was theoretically possible for Spain to have narrowed the productivity gap with Germany (since it was starting out at a much lower level of productivity), the bubble-driven growth of the last decade, spurred by the adoption of the euro and large capital inflows, is not the kind of growth that drives up manufacturing productivity.So, the neoliberals have it backwards: it is the neoliberal macroeconomic policies, locked in with the euro, that are the source of both its recession and continuing troubles. Spain should refuse to accept any policies that prolong its slump and prevent it from reducing unemployment. If that means restructuring its debt or even leaving the euro, then these options should be on the table in any negotiations with the European authorities. These choices would better than suffering through many more years of sluggish growth and high unemployment.", "tags": ["Spain", "Economic policy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Economics", "World news", "Financial crisis", "Currencies", "US news", "Quantitative easing", "Housing market", "Europe", "Austerity"], "title": "Spain, hostage to the eurozone | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2011-03-28T11:43:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bar El Tigre is a wonderful, fun and very traditional Spanish tapas bar in the centre of Alhama de Granada, about 50km from Granada. The boss Antonio is a very lively, friendly host. He prepares simple but exquisite food \u2013 jamon iberico is a must, as are his tostadas \u2013 toasted bread with tasty toppings: tomato, anchovy and jamon, all with lashings of olive oil and black pepper. There is a wonderful aromoa of coffee and red wine as you enter the bar. Feel the warm friendly atmosphere as you sit by the bar or find your seat on the large terrace and watch the locals meander around this dreamy little town .\u2022 Plaza de la Constituci\u00f3n WolfeeIf you are looking for the classic combination of tapas and flamenco in Seville (without being surrounded by hoards of tourists), then head to Pe\u00f1a Pies Plombo. Food is authentically Andulacian \u2013 we tried the chorizo, potaje (the chickpea-based stew), pring\u00e1 (a meat feast for pork lovers), plus the seasonal potao dish, papas ali\u00f1as, which even has its own song. Only open to the public in the evenings, there is a small stage for live flamenco performances; photographs of Spanish greats Cameron and Paco de Luc\u00eda cover the walls. The bar is hosted by enthusiastic Loli, who is always keen to start dancing, especially when accompanied by her husband, Paco. Reassuringly, his Spanish guitar playing is more convincing than his wig. \u2022 Calle D\u00e1rsena 22A OtumbaThis is a great little tapas bar/restaurant within a cool walled garden perched at the top of the hill in the Albaic\u00edn in Granada. It is quite difficult to find, tucked away in a little side street, but is well worth it if you can find it. Fantastic tapas free with every drink, and eating off the menu looked pretty good as well. \u2022 Albaic\u00edn alto, Calle Horno de Hoyo, granadainfo.com/higuera/english.htm SteveMcCannWonderful and well presented local tapas for the connoisseur. Opens at 8.30pm, it's small and perhaps you'll have to queue up \u2013 it's difficult to find too. \u2022 Calle General Ricardos 11 panosxPizara Caf\u00e9 was the best value tapas and wine we had in the Asturias. Try the montaditos \u2013 slices of freshly cooked pork on bread, delicious. The sausages are also very good and go with the glasses of dry white wine. Just ask the bartender for a recommendation and you wont be disappointed. \u2022 Plaza de la Catedral 3, pizarracafe.com SintraIt's a bit on the tiny side \u2013 only 12 people can squeeze in to sit on high chairs around the narrow and high table. The sense of exclusivity is quickly confirmed when food and wine arrives. The tasting menu has so many small courses that I lost count; the wines are from small producers and excellent matches for the food. Courses are \"announced\" on the discreet flat screens at either end of the table. The price is around \u20ac40 per person all included, which must count as one of the great bargains in this city.\u2022 R\u00faa das Ameas, +33 (0) 981 576 145, abastosdouspuntocero.esyork137This charming restaurant in a rustic alley, conveniently placed for a break from sightseeing in the Alcazaba and the Teatro Romano, serves vegan and vegetarian meals. We had the vegan plate: an appetising and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads. The decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments from previous customers written on the walls, mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors. \u2022 Calle Pozo del Rey 5, +34 (0) 952 214 858HappyyetpoorHere you can choose from a range of sit-down meals and enjoy a fantastic view of the surrounding slopes. If it is a bit nippy, warm up with sopa de Grazalema (Grazalema soup, a broth with chorizo and pieces of bread). Next, my favourite pat\u00e9 de perdiz (partridge pat\u00e9), and then if you really want a feast a revuelto (scrambled egg) with seasonal veg (mushroom, asparagus, etc) and a meat of your choice (we opted for the leg of lamb, which could feed an army, not just two people).\u2022 Avenida Juan de la Rosa, +34 (0) 6 6650 2957, eltajo.comBecomingSevillanaIn the heart of the trendy neighbourhood of El Born, just minutes away from the chaos of Las Ramblas, is a great pizzeria run by a group of young friendly Argentinians. The offering consists of a wide variety of delicious crusty deep-base pizza by the slice made with quality ingredients. I recommend the pineapple, bacon, anchovy and tomato. They also have savoury tarts and empanadas. Each item costs a very reasonable \u20ac1.80. If you feel like something sweet, they have a range of typical Argentinian desserts that are worth a try. The place is quite small, catering mainly to locals, and is usually packed \u2013 a good thing because it means the pizza is always fresh.\u2022 Paseo del Born 22, +34 (0) 933 106 246, lapizzadelborn.comCoolandBrightOne of the few remaining traditional family restaurants where you can see three generations sitting down to Sunday lunch. They serve traditional Catalan food, the prices are reasonable and the d\u00e9cor classic. Expect to pay about \u20ac35 per head.\u2022 Carrer d'Enric Granados 89, +34 (0) 934 531 037WilfredbcnA top-quality restaurant in the heart of Puerto de la Cruz. Serves a range of fantastic food, including lots of Canarian cooking. The steaks are particularly good and reasonably priced. I'd recommend their queso asado (toasted goat's cheese with Canarian sauces); the house steak with bacon, apple and onion; papas arrugadas con mojo (small potatoes boiled and wrinkled in sea salt with local garlic and chilli sauce); and half a litre of local wine.\u2022 Calle El Pe\u00f1\u00f3n, Puerto de la Cruz, +34 (0) 922 370 133FarolitaIf you've never had migas, this is the place to be! Migas, an original Spanish dish of breadcrumbs fried with chorizo and olive oil, etc, is served with various toppings, including grapes. Another dish to try here is callos, but I will let you find out what it is. Accompany your meal with Vi\u00f1a Urbezo 2009 red wine which Luis the friendly proprietor \u2013 a former tax officer \u2013 will surely suggest, and you are bound to have a delicious traditional dinner in this family-run restaurant.\u2022 Calle de los Est\u00e9banes 4, +34 (0) 976 200 736PanosxA small, family-run hotel in the heart of Seville. It's a 17th-century house that was sensitively restored by an Anglo-Spanish family, maintaining all the beauty of the original ruin, complete with a small but impressive contemporary art collection. There are great breakfast and tapas, and a plunge pool on the roof if you feel like a break from exploring the incredible Barrio Alfalfa its set in. \u2022 Corral del Rey 12, +34 (0) 954 227 116corraldelrey.com. Doubles from \u20ac280florenceknightingaleLa Seguiriya is a delightful little guesthouse owned (and run with considerable warmth) by flamenco singer Paco Moyano and his wife. Six comfortable, well-appointed rooms are dotted around an 18th-century townhouse. Downstairs, there's a lounge area/bar and an excellent restaurant. Best of all, though, is the extensive terrace area out the back, which boasts stunning views of the town's famous gorge.\u2022 Calle Las Pe\u00f1as 12, +34 (0) 958 360 801, laseguiriya.comthebackpackerA beautiful rustic hotel a few minutes drive from lively Sitges \u2013 you can't fail to have a relaxing stay here. Ian and Neil, the owners, are perfect hosts who offer great suggestions on places to visit and provide evening meals Monday to Saturday and lovely continental breakfast every day. The setting is delightful and it's not far from the sea, vineyards and quaint villages to visit. And the beds are incredibly comfortable.Carretera de Vilafranca, +34 (0) 938 962 061, sumidors.com. Doubles from \u20ac75YVA123Finca al-Manzil is a wonderful place to stay in the Sierra de Mont\u00e1nchez of Extremadura, the most undiscovered region of Spain. It's near three world heritage towns, Trujillo, M\u00e9rida and C\u00e1ceres. The finca is set in beautiful scenery with great walking, birdwatching and sightseeing possibilities. Very comfortable, with a great atmosphere. I stayed in the barn, which is self-catering, a lovely space with views over the olive groves, no neighbours, just peace and beauty. Spring was spectacular.\u2022 +34 (0) 670 743 296, finca-al-manzil.com. Minimum four-night stay at \u20ac110 a day.indigo100Tucked down one of the many narrow streets in the Santa Cruz district is this jawdropping 16th-century palace built by an Indian viceroy. The vast baths are vaulted, with stuccoed Mud\u00e9jars, antique lanterns and Roman seating. Float around in the incense-filled chambers - it's a truly magical experience. All this and fragrant tea!Calle Aire 15, +34 (0) 955 010 025, airedesevilla.comMrsfiftiesIn Madrid's biggest and budget-priced food market you can find stands with exotic, sun-ripened fruits and veg, also fresh fish from Spain's coasts and spices for every combination of ingredients. It makes cooking for every occasion a pleasure!Calle Bravo Murillo 122KathabelThe hammam in M\u00e1laga is the antithesis of the Costa del Sol. Calm, dimly lit, it is as authentic as I have found outside of Turkey. You can have a steam \u2013 no time limit - or book a massage as part of a package. The massage takes place either in the hammam itself on a marble slab, or (for more privacy) in a separate room. Afterward you can rest on the outside terrace with herbal tea. One of the most memorable moments in M\u00e1laga for me, apart from the Picasso Museum which is close by.\u2022 Calle Tom\u00e1s de C\u00f3zar 13, +34 (0) 952 212 327, elhammam.comkateduignanThis tranquil sanctuary with signed paths, a shop and picnic tables is home to around 100 rescued donkeys. Some were taken in injured, some had been mistreated or simply abandoned, and others were exhausted after a life as taxi donkeys or rescued from poorly managed zoos. The spacious sanctuary covers several acres and the donkeys look so happy. An ideal day out for children who can adopt a donkey (but not take it home, of course) for as little as \u20ac20. \u2022 Apartado 25, 29520 Fuente De Piedra, +34 (0) 952 735 077, elrefugiodelburrito.comhispanofileAmong Barcelona's many museums, the most entertaining one is Cosmocaixa. The science museum has a lot of things to experiment with \u2013 very impressive. \u2022 Isaac Newton 26 , +34 (0) 932 126 050, fundacio.lacaixa.esTrobfrGenuine flamenco at Casa de la Memoria - great guitar playing, dancing and singing, all without the touristy food and drink. As a family, we thoroughly enjoyed the experience and it's a must if you visit this fantastic city.\u2022 Calle Ximenez de Enciso, 28, Santa Cruz district, +34 (0) 954 560 670, www.casadelamemoria.esSintraA Moorish festival held over the first two weekends of September in Guaro in M\u00e1laga province. The streetlights are turned off and the beautiful village is lit by 20,000 candles. It's incredible. The streets are lined with North African inspired stalls selling everything from incense to spices to trinkets. Lots of street-side bars and food stalls stay open until the early hours, and there's music as well as other performances. It's really popular with the Spanish who come from far and wide, but not many tourists seem to know about it. I'd recommend staying in the village to avoid the transport chaos.\u2022 lunamora.org/intro.phpiheartholidays", "tags": ["Granada holidays", "Spain holidays", "Madrid holidays", "Seville holidays", "Barcelona holidays", "Food and drink", "Culture", "Hotels", "Travel", "Andalucia holidays"], "title": "The best of Spain - by our readers"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-01-29T15:05:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It has become fashionable since Spain's economy began to decline to make comparisons to Germany, which is rebounding strongly. The idea is that the Germans went through their restructuring, got organised labour under control, and thereby made their economy more competitive. According to this narrative, this is the key to their economic success \u2013 so Spain should do the same, if the Spanish economy is to recover.This fits well with various stereotypes of Germans as disciplined and hardworking, willing to do what is necessary to be competitive in the global economy, while their counterparts in Europe's periphery are seen as undisciplined and indulgent. But the story does not fit the economic facts very well.Spain's problems are mostly associated with the euro, combined with some bad economic policy decisions that have nothing to do with \"labour inflexibility\", the strength of unions or government spending. And its recovery is being delayed as a result of decisions made by the European authorities: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).When Spain joined the euro in 1999, its level of productivity in manufacturing was about 63.6% of Germany's. Over the next 10 years, productivity grew at about the same rate in both countries, so that by 2009, the ratio was about the same: 63%. Hourly wages in manufacturing also increased by about the same amount in both countries, so Germany kept its large, productivity-based cost advantage over Spain. Of course, this arrangement has worked out much better for Germany \u2013 during the upswing from 2002-2007, more than 120% of Germany's growth was due to exports \u2013 with most of these exports going to other eurozone countries.This is the basic problem when a country decides to adopt a common currency with other countries that have much higher levels of productivity. They can't really be competitive in tradable goods \u2013 which includes not only exports, but also industries that compete with imports. If Spain had its own currency, it could let the value of its currency fall to a level that would make the country's tradable goods sectors competitive. In a situation where the economy is in recession or is weak \u2013 Spain's economy shrank by 0.2% in 2010 \u2013 the increased exports and reduced imports from such a devaluation would also help get the economy growing again. Instead, the European authorities have prescribed what is called an \"internal devaluation\" \u2013 shrink the economy and raise unemployment enough so that the country can become competitive, through lower prices and wages, without changing the exchange rate (that is, keeping the euro). Unemployment in Spain is now 20%, and although exports have picked up some over the last year or so, it is not nearly enough to pull the economy out of its slump. Spain needs expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to boost the economy. But monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank \u2013 which, just last week, announced that it may raise interest rates, despite Europe's anemic recovery and crushing unemployment in the eurozone's weakest economies (Spain, Ireland, Portugal).Expansionary fiscal policy is prohibited by pressure from the European authorities \u2013 which are actually pushing Spain to do the opposite; in other words, cut spending and raise taxes \u2013 and the fact that, not having its own monetary policy, Spain cannot engage in \"quantitative easing\", as the US has done recently, or Japan has done for decades, to finance government spending without adding to the country's net debt burden.Now back to Spain's decade of experience with the euro. The adoption of the euro opened up a period of bubble growth, with big capital inflows from other European countries, and the country experienced a vast runup in the stock market and a huge housing bubble. Spain's economy grew by a third between 1999 and 2007, and its net debt fell to just 26.5% of GDP in 2007. But this was bubble-driven growth: the stock market peaked at 125% of GDP in November 2007 and dropped to 54% of GDP a year later. A housing bubble increased construction from 7.5% to 10.8% of GDP (2000-2006), and housing starts dropped by 87% once the bubble burst.It was the bursting of these bubbles, and not any lax spending policies by the government, that crashed Spain's economy and caused its budget troubles. And it is Spain's subordination to the European authorities that prohibits it from using any of the three most important macroeconomic policies \u2013 fiscal, monetary and exchange rate \u2013 to get out of its slump. Furthermore, although it was theoretically possible for Spain to have narrowed the productivity gap with Germany (since it was starting out at a much lower level of productivity), the bubble-driven growth of the last decade, spurred by the adoption of the euro and large capital inflows, is not the kind of growth that drives up manufacturing productivity.So, the neoliberals have it backwards: it is the neoliberal macroeconomic policies, locked in with the euro, that are the source of both its recession and continuing troubles. Spain should refuse to accept any policies that prolong its slump and prevent it from reducing unemployment. If that means restructuring its debt or even leaving the euro, then these options should be on the table in any negotiations with the European authorities. These choices would better than suffering through many more years of sluggish growth and high unemployment.", "tags": ["Spain", "Economic policy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Economics", "World news", "Financial crisis", "Currencies", "US news", "Quantitative easing", "Housing market", "Europe", "Austerity"], "title": "Spain, hostage to the eurozone | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2011-03-28T11:43:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bar El Tigre is a wonderful, fun and very traditional Spanish tapas bar in the centre of Alhama de Granada, about 50km from Granada. The boss Antonio is a very lively, friendly host. He prepares simple but exquisite food \u2013 jamon iberico is a must, as are his tostadas \u2013 toasted bread with tasty toppings: tomato, anchovy and jamon, all with lashings of olive oil and black pepper. There is a wonderful aromoa of coffee and red wine as you enter the bar. Feel the warm friendly atmosphere as you sit by the bar or find your seat on the large terrace and watch the locals meander around this dreamy little town .\u2022 Plaza de la Constituci\u00f3n WolfeeIf you are looking for the classic combination of tapas and flamenco in Seville (without being surrounded by hoards of tourists), then head to Pe\u00f1a Pies Plombo. Food is authentically Andulacian \u2013 we tried the chorizo, potaje (the chickpea-based stew), pring\u00e1 (a meat feast for pork lovers), plus the seasonal potao dish, papas ali\u00f1as, which even has its own song. Only open to the public in the evenings, there is a small stage for live flamenco performances; photographs of Spanish greats Cameron and Paco de Luc\u00eda cover the walls. The bar is hosted by enthusiastic Loli, who is always keen to start dancing, especially when accompanied by her husband, Paco. Reassuringly, his Spanish guitar playing is more convincing than his wig. \u2022 Calle D\u00e1rsena 22A OtumbaThis is a great little tapas bar/restaurant within a cool walled garden perched at the top of the hill in the Albaic\u00edn in Granada. It is quite difficult to find, tucked away in a little side street, but is well worth it if you can find it. Fantastic tapas free with every drink, and eating off the menu looked pretty good as well. \u2022 Albaic\u00edn alto, Calle Horno de Hoyo, granadainfo.com/higuera/english.htm SteveMcCannWonderful and well presented local tapas for the connoisseur. Opens at 8.30pm, it's small and perhaps you'll have to queue up \u2013 it's difficult to find too. \u2022 Calle General Ricardos 11 panosxPizara Caf\u00e9 was the best value tapas and wine we had in the Asturias. Try the montaditos \u2013 slices of freshly cooked pork on bread, delicious. The sausages are also very good and go with the glasses of dry white wine. Just ask the bartender for a recommendation and you wont be disappointed. \u2022 Plaza de la Catedral 3, pizarracafe.com SintraIt's a bit on the tiny side \u2013 only 12 people can squeeze in to sit on high chairs around the narrow and high table. The sense of exclusivity is quickly confirmed when food and wine arrives. The tasting menu has so many small courses that I lost count; the wines are from small producers and excellent matches for the food. Courses are \"announced\" on the discreet flat screens at either end of the table. The price is around \u20ac40 per person all included, which must count as one of the great bargains in this city.\u2022 R\u00faa das Ameas, +33 (0) 981 576 145, abastosdouspuntocero.esyork137This charming restaurant in a rustic alley, conveniently placed for a break from sightseeing in the Alcazaba and the Teatro Romano, serves vegan and vegetarian meals. We had the vegan plate: an appetising and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads. The decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments from previous customers written on the walls, mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors. \u2022 Calle Pozo del Rey 5, +34 (0) 952 214 858HappyyetpoorHere you can choose from a range of sit-down meals and enjoy a fantastic view of the surrounding slopes. If it is a bit nippy, warm up with sopa de Grazalema (Grazalema soup, a broth with chorizo and pieces of bread). Next, my favourite pat\u00e9 de perdiz (partridge pat\u00e9), and then if you really want a feast a revuelto (scrambled egg) with seasonal veg (mushroom, asparagus, etc) and a meat of your choice (we opted for the leg of lamb, which could feed an army, not just two people).\u2022 Avenida Juan de la Rosa, +34 (0) 6 6650 2957, eltajo.comBecomingSevillanaIn the heart of the trendy neighbourhood of El Born, just minutes away from the chaos of Las Ramblas, is a great pizzeria run by a group of young friendly Argentinians. The offering consists of a wide variety of delicious crusty deep-base pizza by the slice made with quality ingredients. I recommend the pineapple, bacon, anchovy and tomato. They also have savoury tarts and empanadas. Each item costs a very reasonable \u20ac1.80. If you feel like something sweet, they have a range of typical Argentinian desserts that are worth a try. The place is quite small, catering mainly to locals, and is usually packed \u2013 a good thing because it means the pizza is always fresh.\u2022 Paseo del Born 22, +34 (0) 933 106 246, lapizzadelborn.comCoolandBrightOne of the few remaining traditional family restaurants where you can see three generations sitting down to Sunday lunch. They serve traditional Catalan food, the prices are reasonable and the d\u00e9cor classic. Expect to pay about \u20ac35 per head.\u2022 Carrer d'Enric Granados 89, +34 (0) 934 531 037WilfredbcnA top-quality restaurant in the heart of Puerto de la Cruz. Serves a range of fantastic food, including lots of Canarian cooking. The steaks are particularly good and reasonably priced. I'd recommend their queso asado (toasted goat's cheese with Canarian sauces); the house steak with bacon, apple and onion; papas arrugadas con mojo (small potatoes boiled and wrinkled in sea salt with local garlic and chilli sauce); and half a litre of local wine.\u2022 Calle El Pe\u00f1\u00f3n, Puerto de la Cruz, +34 (0) 922 370 133FarolitaIf you've never had migas, this is the place to be! Migas, an original Spanish dish of breadcrumbs fried with chorizo and olive oil, etc, is served with various toppings, including grapes. Another dish to try here is callos, but I will let you find out what it is. Accompany your meal with Vi\u00f1a Urbezo 2009 red wine which Luis the friendly proprietor \u2013 a former tax officer \u2013 will surely suggest, and you are bound to have a delicious traditional dinner in this family-run restaurant.\u2022 Calle de los Est\u00e9banes 4, +34 (0) 976 200 736PanosxA small, family-run hotel in the heart of Seville. It's a 17th-century house that was sensitively restored by an Anglo-Spanish family, maintaining all the beauty of the original ruin, complete with a small but impressive contemporary art collection. There are great breakfast and tapas, and a plunge pool on the roof if you feel like a break from exploring the incredible Barrio Alfalfa its set in. \u2022 Corral del Rey 12, +34 (0) 954 227 116corraldelrey.com. Doubles from \u20ac280florenceknightingaleLa Seguiriya is a delightful little guesthouse owned (and run with considerable warmth) by flamenco singer Paco Moyano and his wife. Six comfortable, well-appointed rooms are dotted around an 18th-century townhouse. Downstairs, there's a lounge area/bar and an excellent restaurant. Best of all, though, is the extensive terrace area out the back, which boasts stunning views of the town's famous gorge.\u2022 Calle Las Pe\u00f1as 12, +34 (0) 958 360 801, laseguiriya.comthebackpackerA beautiful rustic hotel a few minutes drive from lively Sitges \u2013 you can't fail to have a relaxing stay here. Ian and Neil, the owners, are perfect hosts who offer great suggestions on places to visit and provide evening meals Monday to Saturday and lovely continental breakfast every day. The setting is delightful and it's not far from the sea, vineyards and quaint villages to visit. And the beds are incredibly comfortable.Carretera de Vilafranca, +34 (0) 938 962 061, sumidors.com. Doubles from \u20ac75YVA123Finca al-Manzil is a wonderful place to stay in the Sierra de Mont\u00e1nchez of Extremadura, the most undiscovered region of Spain. It's near three world heritage towns, Trujillo, M\u00e9rida and C\u00e1ceres. The finca is set in beautiful scenery with great walking, birdwatching and sightseeing possibilities. Very comfortable, with a great atmosphere. I stayed in the barn, which is self-catering, a lovely space with views over the olive groves, no neighbours, just peace and beauty. Spring was spectacular.\u2022 +34 (0) 670 743 296, finca-al-manzil.com. Minimum four-night stay at \u20ac110 a day.indigo100Tucked down one of the many narrow streets in the Santa Cruz district is this jawdropping 16th-century palace built by an Indian viceroy. The vast baths are vaulted, with stuccoed Mud\u00e9jars, antique lanterns and Roman seating. Float around in the incense-filled chambers - it's a truly magical experience. All this and fragrant tea!Calle Aire 15, +34 (0) 955 010 025, airedesevilla.comMrsfiftiesIn Madrid's biggest and budget-priced food market you can find stands with exotic, sun-ripened fruits and veg, also fresh fish from Spain's coasts and spices for every combination of ingredients. It makes cooking for every occasion a pleasure!Calle Bravo Murillo 122KathabelThe hammam in M\u00e1laga is the antithesis of the Costa del Sol. Calm, dimly lit, it is as authentic as I have found outside of Turkey. You can have a steam \u2013 no time limit - or book a massage as part of a package. The massage takes place either in the hammam itself on a marble slab, or (for more privacy) in a separate room. Afterward you can rest on the outside terrace with herbal tea. One of the most memorable moments in M\u00e1laga for me, apart from the Picasso Museum which is close by.\u2022 Calle Tom\u00e1s de C\u00f3zar 13, +34 (0) 952 212 327, elhammam.comkateduignanThis tranquil sanctuary with signed paths, a shop and picnic tables is home to around 100 rescued donkeys. Some were taken in injured, some had been mistreated or simply abandoned, and others were exhausted after a life as taxi donkeys or rescued from poorly managed zoos. The spacious sanctuary covers several acres and the donkeys look so happy. An ideal day out for children who can adopt a donkey (but not take it home, of course) for as little as \u20ac20. \u2022 Apartado 25, 29520 Fuente De Piedra, +34 (0) 952 735 077, elrefugiodelburrito.comhispanofileAmong Barcelona's many museums, the most entertaining one is Cosmocaixa. The science museum has a lot of things to experiment with \u2013 very impressive. \u2022 Isaac Newton 26 , +34 (0) 932 126 050, fundacio.lacaixa.esTrobfrGenuine flamenco at Casa de la Memoria - great guitar playing, dancing and singing, all without the touristy food and drink. As a family, we thoroughly enjoyed the experience and it's a must if you visit this fantastic city.\u2022 Calle Ximenez de Enciso, 28, Santa Cruz district, +34 (0) 954 560 670, www.casadelamemoria.esSintraA Moorish festival held over the first two weekends of September in Guaro in M\u00e1laga province. The streetlights are turned off and the beautiful village is lit by 20,000 candles. It's incredible. The streets are lined with North African inspired stalls selling everything from incense to spices to trinkets. Lots of street-side bars and food stalls stay open until the early hours, and there's music as well as other performances. It's really popular with the Spanish who come from far and wide, but not many tourists seem to know about it. I'd recommend staying in the village to avoid the transport chaos.\u2022 lunamora.org/intro.phpiheartholidays", "tags": ["Granada holidays", "Spain holidays", "Madrid holidays", "Seville holidays", "Barcelona holidays", "Food and drink", "Culture", "Hotels", "Travel", "Andalucia holidays"], "title": "The best of Spain - by our readers"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain shares the Iberian peninsula with Portugal. France sits across the Pyrenees, along with tiny Andorra. A giant rock called Gibraltar sticks out of the bottom and there, due to the perfidious nature of Britain, the Union flag flies. Far-flung outposts include the Canary Islands and two north African enclaves called Melilla and Ceuta. It is considered outlandish to suggest these should not be Spanish. The biggest mountain ranges and rivers (like the Duero) mostly run right to left (except a few that run left to right, like the Ebro). High points include the Pyrenees, Gredos, Sierra Nevada and Alpujarras. Spain is not all sunshine and geraniums. The Atlantic north-west at Galicia is rain-drenched and green, while the interior freezes in winter and the parched south-east at Almer\u00eda (below) can be desert-like \u2013 think Clint Eastwood's The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, which was filmed there.There are now 47 million people in Spain, 7 million more than a decade ago. This has nothing to do with big, happy Spanish families and everything to do with big, happy families from Ecuador, Romania and Morocco. About 5 million immigrants came in just eight years. Not all natives want to be called Spaniards. Some prefer to be called Catalans, Basques, Galicians or by another regional name. Most don't mind being called both Spanish and one of these things, though they disagree over which is more important. Others only want to be Spanish. This is not always a recipe for getting along, but it keeps pollsters busy asking \"identity\" questions.Whizz, bang, pop! Spain's economy grew like a giant souffle in the noughties, only to implode when its massive property bubble burst and the global credit crunch hit. Now 4.3 million Spaniards are jobless \u2013 20% of the total. About 700,000 new homes remain unsold. Spain has less debt than the UK or Germany and has not nationalised major banks, but neighbours like Greece and Portugal make debt markets nervous. Zapatero began swinging the cuts axe even before George Osborne. He also hiked retirement to 67 years. This suits Angela Merkel, who calls the shots.General Francisco Franco died in bed in 1975, restoring the monarchy and handing his dictator's baton to King Juan Carlos. The young king tossed it away and now Spain is a democracy. Juan Carlos stayed on as head of a parliamentary monarchy \u2013 the first monarch since 1931. After Franco died the Catalans, Basques and Galicians wanted some self-government. Then other regions wanted some too. Now Spain is divided between 17 regional governments who do most of the spending (excluding social security and pensions) and have much of the power. Some say Spain is federal in all but name.National politics is a two-horse race. The Socialists and the conservative People's party (PP) take governing in turns. Right now the Socialists rule under the increasingly unpopular prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero. The PP leader, Mariano Rajoy, though considered dull, looks like a shoo-in in the 2012 elections. There are no Lib Dems (even if Nick Clegg, by virtue of his Spanish wife, is Spain's favourite British politician). But nationalists from Catalonia or the Basque country often hold the balance of power, just like Clegg. It is the Basques' turn now. That means more money and devolution. And it means everyone else wants more too.So the French thought they were the kings of cuisine? First the Basques, then the Catalans and then the whole of Spain drowned in Michelin stars at the start of the 21st century. From funky Ferran Adri\u00e0 (pictured above) to the nouvelle cuisine of Juan Mari Arzak, Spain calls the shots. A huge variety of grapes means wineries do not have to imitate the monotonous displays of pinot noir and chardonnay churned out by rivals. Instead they produce distinctive reds from La Rioja, Ribera del Duero, Priorat and a hundred less well-known regions. Sharp north-western whites, like the albari\u00f1os, compete with the smoother verdejos of Rueda or the whites of Pened\u00e8s[acute last e]. . Fizzy cava makes Christmas cheap and the northern Asturians and Basques like their cider.Not a subject Spaniards always agree on. Try asking who caused the civil war in the 1930s, or whether the Basque country and Catalonia are historical nations. A potted history reads like this: Invaders from north Africa made Spain part of the Muslim world in the 8th century. Seven centuries of sluggish reconquest ended in 1492. Cunning royal marriages and clumsy navigating (by Columbus) gave Spain a massive empire covering bits of Europe and much of South America in the 16th century. Everything went downhill from there, ending with the loss of its last major colonies in the 1890s, a civil war in the 1930s and four decades of Franco. The turnaround came with the 1978 democratic constitution.Pedro Almod\u00f3var, Pen\u00e9lope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Antonio Banderas may be global names in cinema, but the industry at home is struggling. Spaniards are the download kings of Europe. Industry lobbyists claim losses of \u20ac4.2bn a year. Only 13 million spectators bought tickets to Spanish films last year \u2013 the worst figure for a decade. They provided \u20ac80.3m of income \u2013 less than the \u20ac87m from subsidies.So is this where Opus Dei members mortify themselves to keep their minds off sex? Or is it one of the few countries to recognise gay marriage and transsexual rights? The answer is both. Most Spaniards occupy the wide middle ground between Almod\u00f3varesque sexual experimentation and church-inspired chastity. The average Spaniard loses his or her virginity at 18. Spanish men are said to be the largest brothel-goers in Europe.Siestas, fiestas and holy communion? Not really. Spaniards are too busy working their strangely long hours to have a mid-day kip. Most call themselves Catholics, but they are not big church-goers. Regional stereotypes stretch from partying Andalucians, to dour Castilians, laconic Galicians, penny-pinching Catalans and industrious, chaste Basques. These are considered insulting and politically incorrect \u2013 except when people use them to describe themselvesIn 2009 Spain boasted the world's ninth largest economy. Now it is 12th, overtaken by Russia, India and Canada. Spaniards are wildly enthusiastic Europeans and seem largely happy to shape their international agenda around the EU. Exceptions include Cuba, where Spain is a dove, and Morocco. The latter is a short hop from southern Spanish beaches and governments, who fear illegal migrants and terrorism, tread carefully.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Travel", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Life and style"], "title": "At-a-glance guide to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-01-29T15:05:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It has become fashionable since Spain's economy began to decline to make comparisons to Germany, which is rebounding strongly. The idea is that the Germans went through their restructuring, got organised labour under control, and thereby made their economy more competitive. According to this narrative, this is the key to their economic success \u2013 so Spain should do the same, if the Spanish economy is to recover.This fits well with various stereotypes of Germans as disciplined and hardworking, willing to do what is necessary to be competitive in the global economy, while their counterparts in Europe's periphery are seen as undisciplined and indulgent. But the story does not fit the economic facts very well.Spain's problems are mostly associated with the euro, combined with some bad economic policy decisions that have nothing to do with \"labour inflexibility\", the strength of unions or government spending. And its recovery is being delayed as a result of decisions made by the European authorities: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).When Spain joined the euro in 1999, its level of productivity in manufacturing was about 63.6% of Germany's. Over the next 10 years, productivity grew at about the same rate in both countries, so that by 2009, the ratio was about the same: 63%. Hourly wages in manufacturing also increased by about the same amount in both countries, so Germany kept its large, productivity-based cost advantage over Spain. Of course, this arrangement has worked out much better for Germany \u2013 during the upswing from 2002-2007, more than 120% of Germany's growth was due to exports \u2013 with most of these exports going to other eurozone countries.This is the basic problem when a country decides to adopt a common currency with other countries that have much higher levels of productivity. They can't really be competitive in tradable goods \u2013 which includes not only exports, but also industries that compete with imports. If Spain had its own currency, it could let the value of its currency fall to a level that would make the country's tradable goods sectors competitive. In a situation where the economy is in recession or is weak \u2013 Spain's economy shrank by 0.2% in 2010 \u2013 the increased exports and reduced imports from such a devaluation would also help get the economy growing again. Instead, the European authorities have prescribed what is called an \"internal devaluation\" \u2013 shrink the economy and raise unemployment enough so that the country can become competitive, through lower prices and wages, without changing the exchange rate (that is, keeping the euro). Unemployment in Spain is now 20%, and although exports have picked up some over the last year or so, it is not nearly enough to pull the economy out of its slump. Spain needs expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to boost the economy. But monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank \u2013 which, just last week, announced that it may raise interest rates, despite Europe's anemic recovery and crushing unemployment in the eurozone's weakest economies (Spain, Ireland, Portugal).Expansionary fiscal policy is prohibited by pressure from the European authorities \u2013 which are actually pushing Spain to do the opposite; in other words, cut spending and raise taxes \u2013 and the fact that, not having its own monetary policy, Spain cannot engage in \"quantitative easing\", as the US has done recently, or Japan has done for decades, to finance government spending without adding to the country's net debt burden.Now back to Spain's decade of experience with the euro. The adoption of the euro opened up a period of bubble growth, with big capital inflows from other European countries, and the country experienced a vast runup in the stock market and a huge housing bubble. Spain's economy grew by a third between 1999 and 2007, and its net debt fell to just 26.5% of GDP in 2007. But this was bubble-driven growth: the stock market peaked at 125% of GDP in November 2007 and dropped to 54% of GDP a year later. A housing bubble increased construction from 7.5% to 10.8% of GDP (2000-2006), and housing starts dropped by 87% once the bubble burst.It was the bursting of these bubbles, and not any lax spending policies by the government, that crashed Spain's economy and caused its budget troubles. And it is Spain's subordination to the European authorities that prohibits it from using any of the three most important macroeconomic policies \u2013 fiscal, monetary and exchange rate \u2013 to get out of its slump. Furthermore, although it was theoretically possible for Spain to have narrowed the productivity gap with Germany (since it was starting out at a much lower level of productivity), the bubble-driven growth of the last decade, spurred by the adoption of the euro and large capital inflows, is not the kind of growth that drives up manufacturing productivity.So, the neoliberals have it backwards: it is the neoliberal macroeconomic policies, locked in with the euro, that are the source of both its recession and continuing troubles. Spain should refuse to accept any policies that prolong its slump and prevent it from reducing unemployment. If that means restructuring its debt or even leaving the euro, then these options should be on the table in any negotiations with the European authorities. These choices would better than suffering through many more years of sluggish growth and high unemployment.", "tags": ["Spain", "Economic policy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Economics", "World news", "Financial crisis", "Currencies", "US news", "Quantitative easing", "Housing market", "Europe", "Austerity"], "title": "Spain, hostage to the eurozone | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2011-03-28T11:43:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bar El Tigre is a wonderful, fun and very traditional Spanish tapas bar in the centre of Alhama de Granada, about 50km from Granada. The boss Antonio is a very lively, friendly host. He prepares simple but exquisite food \u2013 jamon iberico is a must, as are his tostadas \u2013 toasted bread with tasty toppings: tomato, anchovy and jamon, all with lashings of olive oil and black pepper. There is a wonderful aromoa of coffee and red wine as you enter the bar. Feel the warm friendly atmosphere as you sit by the bar or find your seat on the large terrace and watch the locals meander around this dreamy little town .\u2022 Plaza de la Constituci\u00f3n WolfeeIf you are looking for the classic combination of tapas and flamenco in Seville (without being surrounded by hoards of tourists), then head to Pe\u00f1a Pies Plombo. Food is authentically Andulacian \u2013 we tried the chorizo, potaje (the chickpea-based stew), pring\u00e1 (a meat feast for pork lovers), plus the seasonal potao dish, papas ali\u00f1as, which even has its own song. Only open to the public in the evenings, there is a small stage for live flamenco performances; photographs of Spanish greats Cameron and Paco de Luc\u00eda cover the walls. The bar is hosted by enthusiastic Loli, who is always keen to start dancing, especially when accompanied by her husband, Paco. Reassuringly, his Spanish guitar playing is more convincing than his wig. \u2022 Calle D\u00e1rsena 22A OtumbaThis is a great little tapas bar/restaurant within a cool walled garden perched at the top of the hill in the Albaic\u00edn in Granada. It is quite difficult to find, tucked away in a little side street, but is well worth it if you can find it. Fantastic tapas free with every drink, and eating off the menu looked pretty good as well. \u2022 Albaic\u00edn alto, Calle Horno de Hoyo, granadainfo.com/higuera/english.htm SteveMcCannWonderful and well presented local tapas for the connoisseur. Opens at 8.30pm, it's small and perhaps you'll have to queue up \u2013 it's difficult to find too. \u2022 Calle General Ricardos 11 panosxPizara Caf\u00e9 was the best value tapas and wine we had in the Asturias. Try the montaditos \u2013 slices of freshly cooked pork on bread, delicious. The sausages are also very good and go with the glasses of dry white wine. Just ask the bartender for a recommendation and you wont be disappointed. \u2022 Plaza de la Catedral 3, pizarracafe.com SintraIt's a bit on the tiny side \u2013 only 12 people can squeeze in to sit on high chairs around the narrow and high table. The sense of exclusivity is quickly confirmed when food and wine arrives. The tasting menu has so many small courses that I lost count; the wines are from small producers and excellent matches for the food. Courses are \"announced\" on the discreet flat screens at either end of the table. The price is around \u20ac40 per person all included, which must count as one of the great bargains in this city.\u2022 R\u00faa das Ameas, +33 (0) 981 576 145, abastosdouspuntocero.esyork137This charming restaurant in a rustic alley, conveniently placed for a break from sightseeing in the Alcazaba and the Teatro Romano, serves vegan and vegetarian meals. We had the vegan plate: an appetising and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads. The decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments from previous customers written on the walls, mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors. \u2022 Calle Pozo del Rey 5, +34 (0) 952 214 858HappyyetpoorHere you can choose from a range of sit-down meals and enjoy a fantastic view of the surrounding slopes. If it is a bit nippy, warm up with sopa de Grazalema (Grazalema soup, a broth with chorizo and pieces of bread). Next, my favourite pat\u00e9 de perdiz (partridge pat\u00e9), and then if you really want a feast a revuelto (scrambled egg) with seasonal veg (mushroom, asparagus, etc) and a meat of your choice (we opted for the leg of lamb, which could feed an army, not just two people).\u2022 Avenida Juan de la Rosa, +34 (0) 6 6650 2957, eltajo.comBecomingSevillanaIn the heart of the trendy neighbourhood of El Born, just minutes away from the chaos of Las Ramblas, is a great pizzeria run by a group of young friendly Argentinians. The offering consists of a wide variety of delicious crusty deep-base pizza by the slice made with quality ingredients. I recommend the pineapple, bacon, anchovy and tomato. They also have savoury tarts and empanadas. Each item costs a very reasonable \u20ac1.80. If you feel like something sweet, they have a range of typical Argentinian desserts that are worth a try. The place is quite small, catering mainly to locals, and is usually packed \u2013 a good thing because it means the pizza is always fresh.\u2022 Paseo del Born 22, +34 (0) 933 106 246, lapizzadelborn.comCoolandBrightOne of the few remaining traditional family restaurants where you can see three generations sitting down to Sunday lunch. They serve traditional Catalan food, the prices are reasonable and the d\u00e9cor classic. Expect to pay about \u20ac35 per head.\u2022 Carrer d'Enric Granados 89, +34 (0) 934 531 037WilfredbcnA top-quality restaurant in the heart of Puerto de la Cruz. Serves a range of fantastic food, including lots of Canarian cooking. The steaks are particularly good and reasonably priced. I'd recommend their queso asado (toasted goat's cheese with Canarian sauces); the house steak with bacon, apple and onion; papas arrugadas con mojo (small potatoes boiled and wrinkled in sea salt with local garlic and chilli sauce); and half a litre of local wine.\u2022 Calle El Pe\u00f1\u00f3n, Puerto de la Cruz, +34 (0) 922 370 133FarolitaIf you've never had migas, this is the place to be! Migas, an original Spanish dish of breadcrumbs fried with chorizo and olive oil, etc, is served with various toppings, including grapes. Another dish to try here is callos, but I will let you find out what it is. Accompany your meal with Vi\u00f1a Urbezo 2009 red wine which Luis the friendly proprietor \u2013 a former tax officer \u2013 will surely suggest, and you are bound to have a delicious traditional dinner in this family-run restaurant.\u2022 Calle de los Est\u00e9banes 4, +34 (0) 976 200 736PanosxA small, family-run hotel in the heart of Seville. It's a 17th-century house that was sensitively restored by an Anglo-Spanish family, maintaining all the beauty of the original ruin, complete with a small but impressive contemporary art collection. There are great breakfast and tapas, and a plunge pool on the roof if you feel like a break from exploring the incredible Barrio Alfalfa its set in. \u2022 Corral del Rey 12, +34 (0) 954 227 116corraldelrey.com. Doubles from \u20ac280florenceknightingaleLa Seguiriya is a delightful little guesthouse owned (and run with considerable warmth) by flamenco singer Paco Moyano and his wife. Six comfortable, well-appointed rooms are dotted around an 18th-century townhouse. Downstairs, there's a lounge area/bar and an excellent restaurant. Best of all, though, is the extensive terrace area out the back, which boasts stunning views of the town's famous gorge.\u2022 Calle Las Pe\u00f1as 12, +34 (0) 958 360 801, laseguiriya.comthebackpackerA beautiful rustic hotel a few minutes drive from lively Sitges \u2013 you can't fail to have a relaxing stay here. Ian and Neil, the owners, are perfect hosts who offer great suggestions on places to visit and provide evening meals Monday to Saturday and lovely continental breakfast every day. The setting is delightful and it's not far from the sea, vineyards and quaint villages to visit. And the beds are incredibly comfortable.Carretera de Vilafranca, +34 (0) 938 962 061, sumidors.com. Doubles from \u20ac75YVA123Finca al-Manzil is a wonderful place to stay in the Sierra de Mont\u00e1nchez of Extremadura, the most undiscovered region of Spain. It's near three world heritage towns, Trujillo, M\u00e9rida and C\u00e1ceres. The finca is set in beautiful scenery with great walking, birdwatching and sightseeing possibilities. Very comfortable, with a great atmosphere. I stayed in the barn, which is self-catering, a lovely space with views over the olive groves, no neighbours, just peace and beauty. Spring was spectacular.\u2022 +34 (0) 670 743 296, finca-al-manzil.com. Minimum four-night stay at \u20ac110 a day.indigo100Tucked down one of the many narrow streets in the Santa Cruz district is this jawdropping 16th-century palace built by an Indian viceroy. The vast baths are vaulted, with stuccoed Mud\u00e9jars, antique lanterns and Roman seating. Float around in the incense-filled chambers - it's a truly magical experience. All this and fragrant tea!Calle Aire 15, +34 (0) 955 010 025, airedesevilla.comMrsfiftiesIn Madrid's biggest and budget-priced food market you can find stands with exotic, sun-ripened fruits and veg, also fresh fish from Spain's coasts and spices for every combination of ingredients. It makes cooking for every occasion a pleasure!Calle Bravo Murillo 122KathabelThe hammam in M\u00e1laga is the antithesis of the Costa del Sol. Calm, dimly lit, it is as authentic as I have found outside of Turkey. You can have a steam \u2013 no time limit - or book a massage as part of a package. The massage takes place either in the hammam itself on a marble slab, or (for more privacy) in a separate room. Afterward you can rest on the outside terrace with herbal tea. One of the most memorable moments in M\u00e1laga for me, apart from the Picasso Museum which is close by.\u2022 Calle Tom\u00e1s de C\u00f3zar 13, +34 (0) 952 212 327, elhammam.comkateduignanThis tranquil sanctuary with signed paths, a shop and picnic tables is home to around 100 rescued donkeys. Some were taken in injured, some had been mistreated or simply abandoned, and others were exhausted after a life as taxi donkeys or rescued from poorly managed zoos. The spacious sanctuary covers several acres and the donkeys look so happy. An ideal day out for children who can adopt a donkey (but not take it home, of course) for as little as \u20ac20. \u2022 Apartado 25, 29520 Fuente De Piedra, +34 (0) 952 735 077, elrefugiodelburrito.comhispanofileAmong Barcelona's many museums, the most entertaining one is Cosmocaixa. The science museum has a lot of things to experiment with \u2013 very impressive. \u2022 Isaac Newton 26 , +34 (0) 932 126 050, fundacio.lacaixa.esTrobfrGenuine flamenco at Casa de la Memoria - great guitar playing, dancing and singing, all without the touristy food and drink. As a family, we thoroughly enjoyed the experience and it's a must if you visit this fantastic city.\u2022 Calle Ximenez de Enciso, 28, Santa Cruz district, +34 (0) 954 560 670, www.casadelamemoria.esSintraA Moorish festival held over the first two weekends of September in Guaro in M\u00e1laga province. The streetlights are turned off and the beautiful village is lit by 20,000 candles. It's incredible. The streets are lined with North African inspired stalls selling everything from incense to spices to trinkets. Lots of street-side bars and food stalls stay open until the early hours, and there's music as well as other performances. It's really popular with the Spanish who come from far and wide, but not many tourists seem to know about it. I'd recommend staying in the village to avoid the transport chaos.\u2022 lunamora.org/intro.phpiheartholidays", "tags": ["Granada holidays", "Spain holidays", "Madrid holidays", "Seville holidays", "Barcelona holidays", "Food and drink", "Culture", "Hotels", "Travel", "Andalucia holidays"], "title": "The best of Spain - by our readers"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain shares the Iberian peninsula with Portugal. France sits across the Pyrenees, along with tiny Andorra. A giant rock called Gibraltar sticks out of the bottom and there, due to the perfidious nature of Britain, the Union flag flies. Far-flung outposts include the Canary Islands and two north African enclaves called Melilla and Ceuta. It is considered outlandish to suggest these should not be Spanish. The biggest mountain ranges and rivers (like the Duero) mostly run right to left (except a few that run left to right, like the Ebro). High points include the Pyrenees, Gredos, Sierra Nevada and Alpujarras. Spain is not all sunshine and geraniums. The Atlantic north-west at Galicia is rain-drenched and green, while the interior freezes in winter and the parched south-east at Almer\u00eda (below) can be desert-like \u2013 think Clint Eastwood's The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, which was filmed there.There are now 47 million people in Spain, 7 million more than a decade ago. This has nothing to do with big, happy Spanish families and everything to do with big, happy families from Ecuador, Romania and Morocco. About 5 million immigrants came in just eight years. Not all natives want to be called Spaniards. Some prefer to be called Catalans, Basques, Galicians or by another regional name. Most don't mind being called both Spanish and one of these things, though they disagree over which is more important. Others only want to be Spanish. This is not always a recipe for getting along, but it keeps pollsters busy asking \"identity\" questions.Whizz, bang, pop! Spain's economy grew like a giant souffle in the noughties, only to implode when its massive property bubble burst and the global credit crunch hit. Now 4.3 million Spaniards are jobless \u2013 20% of the total. About 700,000 new homes remain unsold. Spain has less debt than the UK or Germany and has not nationalised major banks, but neighbours like Greece and Portugal make debt markets nervous. Zapatero began swinging the cuts axe even before George Osborne. He also hiked retirement to 67 years. This suits Angela Merkel, who calls the shots.General Francisco Franco died in bed in 1975, restoring the monarchy and handing his dictator's baton to King Juan Carlos. The young king tossed it away and now Spain is a democracy. Juan Carlos stayed on as head of a parliamentary monarchy \u2013 the first monarch since 1931. After Franco died the Catalans, Basques and Galicians wanted some self-government. Then other regions wanted some too. Now Spain is divided between 17 regional governments who do most of the spending (excluding social security and pensions) and have much of the power. Some say Spain is federal in all but name.National politics is a two-horse race. The Socialists and the conservative People's party (PP) take governing in turns. Right now the Socialists rule under the increasingly unpopular prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero. The PP leader, Mariano Rajoy, though considered dull, looks like a shoo-in in the 2012 elections. There are no Lib Dems (even if Nick Clegg, by virtue of his Spanish wife, is Spain's favourite British politician). But nationalists from Catalonia or the Basque country often hold the balance of power, just like Clegg. It is the Basques' turn now. That means more money and devolution. And it means everyone else wants more too.So the French thought they were the kings of cuisine? First the Basques, then the Catalans and then the whole of Spain drowned in Michelin stars at the start of the 21st century. From funky Ferran Adri\u00e0 (pictured above) to the nouvelle cuisine of Juan Mari Arzak, Spain calls the shots. A huge variety of grapes means wineries do not have to imitate the monotonous displays of pinot noir and chardonnay churned out by rivals. Instead they produce distinctive reds from La Rioja, Ribera del Duero, Priorat and a hundred less well-known regions. Sharp north-western whites, like the albari\u00f1os, compete with the smoother verdejos of Rueda or the whites of Pened\u00e8s[acute last e]. . Fizzy cava makes Christmas cheap and the northern Asturians and Basques like their cider.Not a subject Spaniards always agree on. Try asking who caused the civil war in the 1930s, or whether the Basque country and Catalonia are historical nations. A potted history reads like this: Invaders from north Africa made Spain part of the Muslim world in the 8th century. Seven centuries of sluggish reconquest ended in 1492. Cunning royal marriages and clumsy navigating (by Columbus) gave Spain a massive empire covering bits of Europe and much of South America in the 16th century. Everything went downhill from there, ending with the loss of its last major colonies in the 1890s, a civil war in the 1930s and four decades of Franco. The turnaround came with the 1978 democratic constitution.Pedro Almod\u00f3var, Pen\u00e9lope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Antonio Banderas may be global names in cinema, but the industry at home is struggling. Spaniards are the download kings of Europe. Industry lobbyists claim losses of \u20ac4.2bn a year. Only 13 million spectators bought tickets to Spanish films last year \u2013 the worst figure for a decade. They provided \u20ac80.3m of income \u2013 less than the \u20ac87m from subsidies.So is this where Opus Dei members mortify themselves to keep their minds off sex? Or is it one of the few countries to recognise gay marriage and transsexual rights? The answer is both. Most Spaniards occupy the wide middle ground between Almod\u00f3varesque sexual experimentation and church-inspired chastity. The average Spaniard loses his or her virginity at 18. Spanish men are said to be the largest brothel-goers in Europe.Siestas, fiestas and holy communion? Not really. Spaniards are too busy working their strangely long hours to have a mid-day kip. Most call themselves Catholics, but they are not big church-goers. Regional stereotypes stretch from partying Andalucians, to dour Castilians, laconic Galicians, penny-pinching Catalans and industrious, chaste Basques. These are considered insulting and politically incorrect \u2013 except when people use them to describe themselvesIn 2009 Spain boasted the world's ninth largest economy. Now it is 12th, overtaken by Russia, India and Canada. Spaniards are wildly enthusiastic Europeans and seem largely happy to shape their international agenda around the EU. Exceptions include Cuba, where Spain is a dove, and Morocco. The latter is a short hop from southern Spanish beaches and governments, who fear illegal migrants and terrorism, tread carefully.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Travel", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Life and style"], "title": "At-a-glance guide to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-29T23:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What economists and policymakers sometimes call the Spanish crisis is no such thing: it is in fact three big problems rolled into one huge and enduring mess. There is the financial collapse within the eurozone, in which over the past year the governments of first Greece then Ireland have been blocked from borrowing from financial markets at any but exorbitant interest rates. There is the meltdown of the Spanish property market, which has in turn triggered a crisis for both the cajas (regional savings banks) and the government treasury. And finally there is the long-run problem of Spain's labour market, where one in five workers are officially out of a job.These are three discrete areas, and they require different solutions to be implemented over varying periods. The problem is that the Spanish government has not had the opportunity to deal with those latter two domestic problems on its own timetable because of the first Europe-wide crisis. In his efforts to beat back the eurozone's financial bushfire and stop it from swallowing up Spain, the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, has been forced to bin election pledges and to concentrate on the ultra-short term.No one should expect that pressure to ease up any time soon. Yesterday the eurozone came under more pressure, as Standard & Poor's slashed its ratings on Portuguese and Greek sovereign debt. According to the credit rating agency, Portugal now stands on the brink of junk-borrower status. The reason for this, S&P's second downgrade of Portugal in less than a week, is that the likelihood is rising that Lisbon will have to be bailed out by the rest of the single-currency club. At the moment, this has all the hallmarks of a self-fulfilling prophecy: the interest rate on 10-year loans to the Portuguese state shot up again yesterday, taking the yield above 8%. That puts Lisbon far closer to the sovereign intensive-care ward of Dublin and Athens (where market interest rates are now over 10%) than it does to the likes of Berlin (which can get away with paying 3.3% on its 10-year loans).For the past year, Mr Zapatero has been desperately trying to prove to investors that Spain should not be lumped in with Portugal, let alone Greece and Ireland. His government has made sharper and faster spending cuts than it originally planned; after a delayed start, the central bank has launched a speedy clean-up of the troubled cajas. So far, the effort seems to be paying off \u2013 the interest rate on loans to Madrid is 5.2%, which indicates that the market judges its creditworthiness to be somewhere between Berlin and Lisbon. But if Portugal does call it quits and apply for a bailout (although how it will do that without a functioning government in place is an interesting thought experiment), traders and investors will once again ask if Madrid is next.The shame of all this is that Spain's problems, while large, are nothing like those of other southern European states. Its government did not go on a borrowing binge in the past decade; its households and companies did. True, public borrowing has risen sharply during Spain's severe recession \u2013 but that is largely because tax revenues have naturally collapsed. If Madrid does manage to keep the bond-market vigilantes from its door, that will still leave its policymakers with the huge job of rebuilding a broken economy. Going by the official figures, joblessness in Spain is the highest in the eurozone, while two in five young people are out of work. Officials refer to its \"dual\" labour market, in which a select group of workers have jobs for life, effectively, while the rest are on short-term contracts. Then there is the problem that much of Spanish industry is uncompetitive, with very low productivity. The sad reality is that even if Madrid is not dragged into the eurozone financial bushfire, it faces a long, slow haul to fix its economy.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Eurozone crisis: The pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-28T13:55:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "\"The French are bleeding great at literature, aren't they?\" Well, yes, Lord Adonis, they certainly are. They may not be much good at cricket, but what a lot of storming recommendations, from Julian Evans's declaration that \"there is no end to understanding Flaubert\" to fre034's praise for Jean Echenoz's \"dry wit, sometimes surreal plots, and technically perfect crafting of the French language\", adding that he's \"often compared stylistically to Flaubert\". As we found in Germany, the classics made a strong showing - Voltaire, Dumas et al - but you'll also find contemporary French literature in all its glory, from AggieH's suggestion of Marie Darrieussecq's \"witty, insightful, clever, well-written, original\" Pig Tales, to daifullpelt saluting Philippe Delerm's skill in making the \"putting out of rubbish a really vibrant experience\". Thanks one and all.Back in the discussion we found gavinscottw's ringing call of \"Balzac! Balzac! Balzac!\", alongside msmlee's demand that Simone de Beauvoir join Virginia Woolf as \"a must-read for people of all genders\". And it seems that my own indifference to Huysmans's \u00c0 rebours goes a little against the grain \u2026But it seems to me that we're really getting into the swing of things here. And this week we're heading to the birthplace of the novel, yes, definitely the birthplace of the novel: Spain.What we're after are the books - fiction, non-fiction, plays and poetry - which sum up the land of El Cid, whether written by Spanish authors or not. This rules the vast richness of Spanish letters across the ocean - from Colombia to Argentina - out of bounds, but also rules in Orwell's Homage to Catalonia, or Hemingway's Fiesta, and opens up an interesting question of its own. How does the portrait of Spain which emerges from Castilian match up with that carved out of Catalan?You may already be familiar with those technological boxes down below, which manufacture, by some brilliant technological wheeze, a spreadsheet of collective know-how - just like the one we made for France. As before, we'll need a country - er, Spain - a title, an author, perhaps a translator, and an explanation of why it's such a great book. I'm adding Javier Mar\u00edas's monumental Your Face Tomorrow, and a book which is in many ways its exact opposite, Maria Barbal's flinty fragment, Stone in a Landslide. Oh, and the book I've been saying is the best book I've read in the last five years, for, oh, about five years now: Javier Cercas's magnificent Soldiers of Salamis. But perhaps you'd care to disagree ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Spain", "World news"], "title": "World literature tour: Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This week, the Guardian's New Europe series travels to Spain, arguably the hardest hit of any big EU country by the economic crisis and the only one with a left-of-centre government.Our correspondents, columnists and critics will report on everything from food to fertility treatment, street style to sculpture, bullfighting to Britons abroad. We will interview leaders from the worlds of politics, business, gastronomy and education, and will investigate the strains on federalism that periodically undermine Spanish unity.We are teaming up with leading publications in each country to get a better sense of the national conversation. Stay with us on this journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Spain"], "title": "Welcome to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-28T07:00:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Not even Don Quixote himself, the sanest madman in the history of literature, could have dreamed of such frenzied publishing activity. If an imaginary bookseller, hidden among bundles of paper and ink, had provided Don Quixote with the thousands of books Spanish publishers supply to readers (and to journalists and critics \u2013 right now I cannot move for the dozens of packages sitting on my desk and the shelves in my office), the entire world would have been flooded with chivalry books. Spain is not exactly at the top of Europe's book-reading nations . . . but it is certainly one of the biggest book-producing countries.This country continues to be \"fraternally\" divided between advocates of seeking the mortal remains of one of its greatest literary figures \u2013 Garc\u00eda Lorca, who was assassinated by fascist gunmen in 1936 \u2013 and advocates of putting it behind us (among them, the poet's own family).Meanwhile, the publishing engine continues its unstoppable course. Long ago, a few large publishing companies, such as Santillana, Planeta and Mondadori, took control of the lion's share of the market. However, despite the steamrolling presence of these companies, not only do small publishers survive but new ones keep popping up and \u2013 even in this recession-ridden 2011 \u2013 it is these small players who manage to keep alive the embers of independence and surprise: Perif\u00e9rica, Libros del Asteroide, P\u00e1ginas de Espuma, Min\u00fascula and N\u00f3rdica, to name but a few distinguished examples.Talking of new arrivals, one has to mention Juan Mars\u00e9's new book Caligraf\u00eda de los sue\u00f1os (Lumen), an introspective inquiry into the Barcelona of the post-war period. Mars\u00e9 is a master of the art of covering the same territory a thousand times and always making it seem new. The author of unforgettable portraits of a Spain facing a very uncertain future, such as Ronda del Guinard\u00f3, Si te dicen que ca\u00ed and Rabos de lagartija, returns to familiar material: everything is sad in Mars\u00e9, a sadness that also includes meanness, humour and, of course, memory. His legions of followers are delighted as always.But in Spain, right now, the most awaited book of the year is undoubtedly Javier Mar\u00edas's new novel, Los enamoramientos (Alfaguara). The eternal Spanish Nobel prize candidate and the author of what have already become contemporary classics, such as Tomorrow in the Battle Think on Me and A Heart So White, has handed over to the printers a spine-chilling story about the highs and lows of our miserable lives. Mar\u00edas is always Mar\u00edas, and his arrival in the bookshops is always the publishing event of the season.The same applies, of course, to the most Peruvian of Spanish writers (or is it the other way around?), a gentleman from Arequipa with his home in the most quintessentially Madrile\u00f1o Madrid, the man who had been forever on the cards for the Nobel prize until he finally won last year. Mario Vargas Llosa continues to hold a place of honour in bookshops across the country, thanks not only to his latest book, El sue\u00f1o del celta \u2013 about Roger Casement, one of the first Europeans to report the colonial savagery in Belgian Congo and in the Amazon \u2013 but also to the publication of his full works, which the publisher Alfaguara started working on as soon as it was known that the Nobel prize had gone to the author of The Feast of the Goat.Looking a little further back, Anatom\u00eda de un instante (Mondadori) by Javier Cercas is one of those essay/fiction books that is so linked to a real \u2013 and brutal \u2013 event that it not only managed to hypnotise Spanish readers at the time of its well-publicised launch many months ago, but still manages to do so now. The recent commemorations of the 30th anniversary of the attempted coup d'\u00e9tat by a group of military officers, on 23 February 1981 (the real pretext for this work of literary pseudo-fiction), has helped to maintain interest in Cercas's book. He is undoubtedly one of the most interesting authors on the young literary scene in Spain, besides being an especially lucid and sharp columnist. The Spanish continue to live with the 23-F, as it is known. It is a ghost that has never entirely disappeared, a collective memory which Cercas manages to translate masterfully on to the pages of a book that has become a bestseller. Everyone remembers, we all remember, where we were and what we were doing when the pro-Franco soldiers barged into the parliament, shooting into the air. There is also an insistent rumour that Anatom\u00eda de un instante will become a film. If this is true, the Spanish, always so happy to remember the darkest parts of their history, will flock to the cinemas.The darkest part of history . . . or of the present, like the town-planning corruption along the Spanish coastline and more specifically on the east coast (Valencia and Alicante). This mafia world with a dash of Spanish picaresque served as inspiration for Rafael Chirbes, one of the most remarkable authors on the Spanish scene, in his book Crematorio (Anagrama), which has also returned to the limelight thanks to a new TV series on Canal Plus.Roberto Bola\u00f1o, one of the most popular authors in Spain, although he was Chilean, is another strong presence just now, thanks to Anagrama having rescued his book La literatura nazi en Am\u00e9rica. All this makes up the spectrum of what is happening in literary Spain \u2013 a strange country where ebooks have recently become the new fixation of cultural pirates. We have long been European leaders in film and record piracy. All that remains now is to gain the dubious honour of becoming the most efficient ebook pirates. That doesn't seem altogether unlikely, given that the measures undertaken to date by the Ministry of Culture against piracy are a bit of a joke. If Cervantes rose from the dead today he would head straight back to his tomb.1 El tiempo entre costuras (The Time Between Seams) by Mar\u00eda Due\u00f1as (novel in which Madrid seamstress is drawn into international espionage)2 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett3 Dime qui\u00e9n soy (Tell Me Who I Am) by Julia Navarro (novel about the anonymous makers of 20th-century Spanish history)4 El asedio (The Siege) by Arturo P\u00e9rez-Reverte (novel set in 1811 Cadiz)5 Think of a Number by John Verdon (thriller)Total 2010 book sales 236m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "What they're reading in Spain"},{"date": "2011-01-29T15:05:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It has become fashionable since Spain's economy began to decline to make comparisons to Germany, which is rebounding strongly. The idea is that the Germans went through their restructuring, got organised labour under control, and thereby made their economy more competitive. According to this narrative, this is the key to their economic success \u2013 so Spain should do the same, if the Spanish economy is to recover.This fits well with various stereotypes of Germans as disciplined and hardworking, willing to do what is necessary to be competitive in the global economy, while their counterparts in Europe's periphery are seen as undisciplined and indulgent. But the story does not fit the economic facts very well.Spain's problems are mostly associated with the euro, combined with some bad economic policy decisions that have nothing to do with \"labour inflexibility\", the strength of unions or government spending. And its recovery is being delayed as a result of decisions made by the European authorities: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).When Spain joined the euro in 1999, its level of productivity in manufacturing was about 63.6% of Germany's. Over the next 10 years, productivity grew at about the same rate in both countries, so that by 2009, the ratio was about the same: 63%. Hourly wages in manufacturing also increased by about the same amount in both countries, so Germany kept its large, productivity-based cost advantage over Spain. Of course, this arrangement has worked out much better for Germany \u2013 during the upswing from 2002-2007, more than 120% of Germany's growth was due to exports \u2013 with most of these exports going to other eurozone countries.This is the basic problem when a country decides to adopt a common currency with other countries that have much higher levels of productivity. They can't really be competitive in tradable goods \u2013 which includes not only exports, but also industries that compete with imports. If Spain had its own currency, it could let the value of its currency fall to a level that would make the country's tradable goods sectors competitive. In a situation where the economy is in recession or is weak \u2013 Spain's economy shrank by 0.2% in 2010 \u2013 the increased exports and reduced imports from such a devaluation would also help get the economy growing again. Instead, the European authorities have prescribed what is called an \"internal devaluation\" \u2013 shrink the economy and raise unemployment enough so that the country can become competitive, through lower prices and wages, without changing the exchange rate (that is, keeping the euro). Unemployment in Spain is now 20%, and although exports have picked up some over the last year or so, it is not nearly enough to pull the economy out of its slump. Spain needs expansionary fiscal and monetary policy to boost the economy. But monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank \u2013 which, just last week, announced that it may raise interest rates, despite Europe's anemic recovery and crushing unemployment in the eurozone's weakest economies (Spain, Ireland, Portugal).Expansionary fiscal policy is prohibited by pressure from the European authorities \u2013 which are actually pushing Spain to do the opposite; in other words, cut spending and raise taxes \u2013 and the fact that, not having its own monetary policy, Spain cannot engage in \"quantitative easing\", as the US has done recently, or Japan has done for decades, to finance government spending without adding to the country's net debt burden.Now back to Spain's decade of experience with the euro. The adoption of the euro opened up a period of bubble growth, with big capital inflows from other European countries, and the country experienced a vast runup in the stock market and a huge housing bubble. Spain's economy grew by a third between 1999 and 2007, and its net debt fell to just 26.5% of GDP in 2007. But this was bubble-driven growth: the stock market peaked at 125% of GDP in November 2007 and dropped to 54% of GDP a year later. A housing bubble increased construction from 7.5% to 10.8% of GDP (2000-2006), and housing starts dropped by 87% once the bubble burst.It was the bursting of these bubbles, and not any lax spending policies by the government, that crashed Spain's economy and caused its budget troubles. And it is Spain's subordination to the European authorities that prohibits it from using any of the three most important macroeconomic policies \u2013 fiscal, monetary and exchange rate \u2013 to get out of its slump. Furthermore, although it was theoretically possible for Spain to have narrowed the productivity gap with Germany (since it was starting out at a much lower level of productivity), the bubble-driven growth of the last decade, spurred by the adoption of the euro and large capital inflows, is not the kind of growth that drives up manufacturing productivity.So, the neoliberals have it backwards: it is the neoliberal macroeconomic policies, locked in with the euro, that are the source of both its recession and continuing troubles. Spain should refuse to accept any policies that prolong its slump and prevent it from reducing unemployment. If that means restructuring its debt or even leaving the euro, then these options should be on the table in any negotiations with the European authorities. These choices would better than suffering through many more years of sluggish growth and high unemployment.", "tags": ["Spain", "Economic policy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Economics", "World news", "Financial crisis", "Currencies", "US news", "Quantitative easing", "Housing market", "Europe", "Austerity"], "title": "Spain, hostage to the eurozone | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2011-03-28T11:43:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bar El Tigre is a wonderful, fun and very traditional Spanish tapas bar in the centre of Alhama de Granada, about 50km from Granada. The boss Antonio is a very lively, friendly host. He prepares simple but exquisite food \u2013 jamon iberico is a must, as are his tostadas \u2013 toasted bread with tasty toppings: tomato, anchovy and jamon, all with lashings of olive oil and black pepper. There is a wonderful aromoa of coffee and red wine as you enter the bar. Feel the warm friendly atmosphere as you sit by the bar or find your seat on the large terrace and watch the locals meander around this dreamy little town .\u2022 Plaza de la Constituci\u00f3n WolfeeIf you are looking for the classic combination of tapas and flamenco in Seville (without being surrounded by hoards of tourists), then head to Pe\u00f1a Pies Plombo. Food is authentically Andulacian \u2013 we tried the chorizo, potaje (the chickpea-based stew), pring\u00e1 (a meat feast for pork lovers), plus the seasonal potao dish, papas ali\u00f1as, which even has its own song. Only open to the public in the evenings, there is a small stage for live flamenco performances; photographs of Spanish greats Cameron and Paco de Luc\u00eda cover the walls. The bar is hosted by enthusiastic Loli, who is always keen to start dancing, especially when accompanied by her husband, Paco. Reassuringly, his Spanish guitar playing is more convincing than his wig. \u2022 Calle D\u00e1rsena 22A OtumbaThis is a great little tapas bar/restaurant within a cool walled garden perched at the top of the hill in the Albaic\u00edn in Granada. It is quite difficult to find, tucked away in a little side street, but is well worth it if you can find it. Fantastic tapas free with every drink, and eating off the menu looked pretty good as well. \u2022 Albaic\u00edn alto, Calle Horno de Hoyo, granadainfo.com/higuera/english.htm SteveMcCannWonderful and well presented local tapas for the connoisseur. Opens at 8.30pm, it's small and perhaps you'll have to queue up \u2013 it's difficult to find too. \u2022 Calle General Ricardos 11 panosxPizara Caf\u00e9 was the best value tapas and wine we had in the Asturias. Try the montaditos \u2013 slices of freshly cooked pork on bread, delicious. The sausages are also very good and go with the glasses of dry white wine. Just ask the bartender for a recommendation and you wont be disappointed. \u2022 Plaza de la Catedral 3, pizarracafe.com SintraIt's a bit on the tiny side \u2013 only 12 people can squeeze in to sit on high chairs around the narrow and high table. The sense of exclusivity is quickly confirmed when food and wine arrives. The tasting menu has so many small courses that I lost count; the wines are from small producers and excellent matches for the food. Courses are \"announced\" on the discreet flat screens at either end of the table. The price is around \u20ac40 per person all included, which must count as one of the great bargains in this city.\u2022 R\u00faa das Ameas, +33 (0) 981 576 145, abastosdouspuntocero.esyork137This charming restaurant in a rustic alley, conveniently placed for a break from sightseeing in the Alcazaba and the Teatro Romano, serves vegan and vegetarian meals. We had the vegan plate: an appetising and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads. The decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments from previous customers written on the walls, mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors. \u2022 Calle Pozo del Rey 5, +34 (0) 952 214 858HappyyetpoorHere you can choose from a range of sit-down meals and enjoy a fantastic view of the surrounding slopes. If it is a bit nippy, warm up with sopa de Grazalema (Grazalema soup, a broth with chorizo and pieces of bread). Next, my favourite pat\u00e9 de perdiz (partridge pat\u00e9), and then if you really want a feast a revuelto (scrambled egg) with seasonal veg (mushroom, asparagus, etc) and a meat of your choice (we opted for the leg of lamb, which could feed an army, not just two people).\u2022 Avenida Juan de la Rosa, +34 (0) 6 6650 2957, eltajo.comBecomingSevillanaIn the heart of the trendy neighbourhood of El Born, just minutes away from the chaos of Las Ramblas, is a great pizzeria run by a group of young friendly Argentinians. The offering consists of a wide variety of delicious crusty deep-base pizza by the slice made with quality ingredients. I recommend the pineapple, bacon, anchovy and tomato. They also have savoury tarts and empanadas. Each item costs a very reasonable \u20ac1.80. If you feel like something sweet, they have a range of typical Argentinian desserts that are worth a try. The place is quite small, catering mainly to locals, and is usually packed \u2013 a good thing because it means the pizza is always fresh.\u2022 Paseo del Born 22, +34 (0) 933 106 246, lapizzadelborn.comCoolandBrightOne of the few remaining traditional family restaurants where you can see three generations sitting down to Sunday lunch. They serve traditional Catalan food, the prices are reasonable and the d\u00e9cor classic. Expect to pay about \u20ac35 per head.\u2022 Carrer d'Enric Granados 89, +34 (0) 934 531 037WilfredbcnA top-quality restaurant in the heart of Puerto de la Cruz. Serves a range of fantastic food, including lots of Canarian cooking. The steaks are particularly good and reasonably priced. I'd recommend their queso asado (toasted goat's cheese with Canarian sauces); the house steak with bacon, apple and onion; papas arrugadas con mojo (small potatoes boiled and wrinkled in sea salt with local garlic and chilli sauce); and half a litre of local wine.\u2022 Calle El Pe\u00f1\u00f3n, Puerto de la Cruz, +34 (0) 922 370 133FarolitaIf you've never had migas, this is the place to be! Migas, an original Spanish dish of breadcrumbs fried with chorizo and olive oil, etc, is served with various toppings, including grapes. Another dish to try here is callos, but I will let you find out what it is. Accompany your meal with Vi\u00f1a Urbezo 2009 red wine which Luis the friendly proprietor \u2013 a former tax officer \u2013 will surely suggest, and you are bound to have a delicious traditional dinner in this family-run restaurant.\u2022 Calle de los Est\u00e9banes 4, +34 (0) 976 200 736PanosxA small, family-run hotel in the heart of Seville. It's a 17th-century house that was sensitively restored by an Anglo-Spanish family, maintaining all the beauty of the original ruin, complete with a small but impressive contemporary art collection. There are great breakfast and tapas, and a plunge pool on the roof if you feel like a break from exploring the incredible Barrio Alfalfa its set in. \u2022 Corral del Rey 12, +34 (0) 954 227 116corraldelrey.com. Doubles from \u20ac280florenceknightingaleLa Seguiriya is a delightful little guesthouse owned (and run with considerable warmth) by flamenco singer Paco Moyano and his wife. Six comfortable, well-appointed rooms are dotted around an 18th-century townhouse. Downstairs, there's a lounge area/bar and an excellent restaurant. Best of all, though, is the extensive terrace area out the back, which boasts stunning views of the town's famous gorge.\u2022 Calle Las Pe\u00f1as 12, +34 (0) 958 360 801, laseguiriya.comthebackpackerA beautiful rustic hotel a few minutes drive from lively Sitges \u2013 you can't fail to have a relaxing stay here. Ian and Neil, the owners, are perfect hosts who offer great suggestions on places to visit and provide evening meals Monday to Saturday and lovely continental breakfast every day. The setting is delightful and it's not far from the sea, vineyards and quaint villages to visit. And the beds are incredibly comfortable.Carretera de Vilafranca, +34 (0) 938 962 061, sumidors.com. Doubles from \u20ac75YVA123Finca al-Manzil is a wonderful place to stay in the Sierra de Mont\u00e1nchez of Extremadura, the most undiscovered region of Spain. It's near three world heritage towns, Trujillo, M\u00e9rida and C\u00e1ceres. The finca is set in beautiful scenery with great walking, birdwatching and sightseeing possibilities. Very comfortable, with a great atmosphere. I stayed in the barn, which is self-catering, a lovely space with views over the olive groves, no neighbours, just peace and beauty. Spring was spectacular.\u2022 +34 (0) 670 743 296, finca-al-manzil.com. Minimum four-night stay at \u20ac110 a day.indigo100Tucked down one of the many narrow streets in the Santa Cruz district is this jawdropping 16th-century palace built by an Indian viceroy. The vast baths are vaulted, with stuccoed Mud\u00e9jars, antique lanterns and Roman seating. Float around in the incense-filled chambers - it's a truly magical experience. All this and fragrant tea!Calle Aire 15, +34 (0) 955 010 025, airedesevilla.comMrsfiftiesIn Madrid's biggest and budget-priced food market you can find stands with exotic, sun-ripened fruits and veg, also fresh fish from Spain's coasts and spices for every combination of ingredients. It makes cooking for every occasion a pleasure!Calle Bravo Murillo 122KathabelThe hammam in M\u00e1laga is the antithesis of the Costa del Sol. Calm, dimly lit, it is as authentic as I have found outside of Turkey. You can have a steam \u2013 no time limit - or book a massage as part of a package. The massage takes place either in the hammam itself on a marble slab, or (for more privacy) in a separate room. Afterward you can rest on the outside terrace with herbal tea. One of the most memorable moments in M\u00e1laga for me, apart from the Picasso Museum which is close by.\u2022 Calle Tom\u00e1s de C\u00f3zar 13, +34 (0) 952 212 327, elhammam.comkateduignanThis tranquil sanctuary with signed paths, a shop and picnic tables is home to around 100 rescued donkeys. Some were taken in injured, some had been mistreated or simply abandoned, and others were exhausted after a life as taxi donkeys or rescued from poorly managed zoos. The spacious sanctuary covers several acres and the donkeys look so happy. An ideal day out for children who can adopt a donkey (but not take it home, of course) for as little as \u20ac20. \u2022 Apartado 25, 29520 Fuente De Piedra, +34 (0) 952 735 077, elrefugiodelburrito.comhispanofileAmong Barcelona's many museums, the most entertaining one is Cosmocaixa. The science museum has a lot of things to experiment with \u2013 very impressive. \u2022 Isaac Newton 26 , +34 (0) 932 126 050, fundacio.lacaixa.esTrobfrGenuine flamenco at Casa de la Memoria - great guitar playing, dancing and singing, all without the touristy food and drink. As a family, we thoroughly enjoyed the experience and it's a must if you visit this fantastic city.\u2022 Calle Ximenez de Enciso, 28, Santa Cruz district, +34 (0) 954 560 670, www.casadelamemoria.esSintraA Moorish festival held over the first two weekends of September in Guaro in M\u00e1laga province. The streetlights are turned off and the beautiful village is lit by 20,000 candles. It's incredible. The streets are lined with North African inspired stalls selling everything from incense to spices to trinkets. Lots of street-side bars and food stalls stay open until the early hours, and there's music as well as other performances. It's really popular with the Spanish who come from far and wide, but not many tourists seem to know about it. I'd recommend staying in the village to avoid the transport chaos.\u2022 lunamora.org/intro.phpiheartholidays", "tags": ["Granada holidays", "Spain holidays", "Madrid holidays", "Seville holidays", "Barcelona holidays", "Food and drink", "Culture", "Hotels", "Travel", "Andalucia holidays"], "title": "The best of Spain - by our readers"},{"date": "2011-03-28T06:00:12Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain shares the Iberian peninsula with Portugal. France sits across the Pyrenees, along with tiny Andorra. A giant rock called Gibraltar sticks out of the bottom and there, due to the perfidious nature of Britain, the Union flag flies. Far-flung outposts include the Canary Islands and two north African enclaves called Melilla and Ceuta. It is considered outlandish to suggest these should not be Spanish. The biggest mountain ranges and rivers (like the Duero) mostly run right to left (except a few that run left to right, like the Ebro). High points include the Pyrenees, Gredos, Sierra Nevada and Alpujarras. Spain is not all sunshine and geraniums. The Atlantic north-west at Galicia is rain-drenched and green, while the interior freezes in winter and the parched south-east at Almer\u00eda (below) can be desert-like \u2013 think Clint Eastwood's The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, which was filmed there.There are now 47 million people in Spain, 7 million more than a decade ago. This has nothing to do with big, happy Spanish families and everything to do with big, happy families from Ecuador, Romania and Morocco. About 5 million immigrants came in just eight years. Not all natives want to be called Spaniards. Some prefer to be called Catalans, Basques, Galicians or by another regional name. Most don't mind being called both Spanish and one of these things, though they disagree over which is more important. Others only want to be Spanish. This is not always a recipe for getting along, but it keeps pollsters busy asking \"identity\" questions.Whizz, bang, pop! Spain's economy grew like a giant souffle in the noughties, only to implode when its massive property bubble burst and the global credit crunch hit. Now 4.3 million Spaniards are jobless \u2013 20% of the total. About 700,000 new homes remain unsold. Spain has less debt than the UK or Germany and has not nationalised major banks, but neighbours like Greece and Portugal make debt markets nervous. Zapatero began swinging the cuts axe even before George Osborne. He also hiked retirement to 67 years. This suits Angela Merkel, who calls the shots.General Francisco Franco died in bed in 1975, restoring the monarchy and handing his dictator's baton to King Juan Carlos. The young king tossed it away and now Spain is a democracy. Juan Carlos stayed on as head of a parliamentary monarchy \u2013 the first monarch since 1931. After Franco died the Catalans, Basques and Galicians wanted some self-government. Then other regions wanted some too. Now Spain is divided between 17 regional governments who do most of the spending (excluding social security and pensions) and have much of the power. Some say Spain is federal in all but name.National politics is a two-horse race. The Socialists and the conservative People's party (PP) take governing in turns. Right now the Socialists rule under the increasingly unpopular prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero. The PP leader, Mariano Rajoy, though considered dull, looks like a shoo-in in the 2012 elections. There are no Lib Dems (even if Nick Clegg, by virtue of his Spanish wife, is Spain's favourite British politician). But nationalists from Catalonia or the Basque country often hold the balance of power, just like Clegg. It is the Basques' turn now. That means more money and devolution. And it means everyone else wants more too.So the French thought they were the kings of cuisine? First the Basques, then the Catalans and then the whole of Spain drowned in Michelin stars at the start of the 21st century. From funky Ferran Adri\u00e0 (pictured above) to the nouvelle cuisine of Juan Mari Arzak, Spain calls the shots. A huge variety of grapes means wineries do not have to imitate the monotonous displays of pinot noir and chardonnay churned out by rivals. Instead they produce distinctive reds from La Rioja, Ribera del Duero, Priorat and a hundred less well-known regions. Sharp north-western whites, like the albari\u00f1os, compete with the smoother verdejos of Rueda or the whites of Pened\u00e8s[acute last e]. . Fizzy cava makes Christmas cheap and the northern Asturians and Basques like their cider.Not a subject Spaniards always agree on. Try asking who caused the civil war in the 1930s, or whether the Basque country and Catalonia are historical nations. A potted history reads like this: Invaders from north Africa made Spain part of the Muslim world in the 8th century. Seven centuries of sluggish reconquest ended in 1492. Cunning royal marriages and clumsy navigating (by Columbus) gave Spain a massive empire covering bits of Europe and much of South America in the 16th century. Everything went downhill from there, ending with the loss of its last major colonies in the 1890s, a civil war in the 1930s and four decades of Franco. The turnaround came with the 1978 democratic constitution.Pedro Almod\u00f3var, Pen\u00e9lope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Antonio Banderas may be global names in cinema, but the industry at home is struggling. Spaniards are the download kings of Europe. Industry lobbyists claim losses of \u20ac4.2bn a year. Only 13 million spectators bought tickets to Spanish films last year \u2013 the worst figure for a decade. They provided \u20ac80.3m of income \u2013 less than the \u20ac87m from subsidies.So is this where Opus Dei members mortify themselves to keep their minds off sex? Or is it one of the few countries to recognise gay marriage and transsexual rights? The answer is both. Most Spaniards occupy the wide middle ground between Almod\u00f3varesque sexual experimentation and church-inspired chastity. The average Spaniard loses his or her virginity at 18. Spanish men are said to be the largest brothel-goers in Europe.Siestas, fiestas and holy communion? Not really. Spaniards are too busy working their strangely long hours to have a mid-day kip. Most call themselves Catholics, but they are not big church-goers. Regional stereotypes stretch from partying Andalucians, to dour Castilians, laconic Galicians, penny-pinching Catalans and industrious, chaste Basques. These are considered insulting and politically incorrect \u2013 except when people use them to describe themselvesIn 2009 Spain boasted the world's ninth largest economy. Now it is 12th, overtaken by Russia, India and Canada. Spaniards are wildly enthusiastic Europeans and seem largely happy to shape their international agenda around the EU. Exceptions include Cuba, where Spain is a dove, and Morocco. The latter is a short hop from southern Spanish beaches and governments, who fear illegal migrants and terrorism, tread carefully.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Travel", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Life and style"], "title": "At-a-glance guide to Spain"},{"date": "2011-03-29T23:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "What economists and policymakers sometimes call the Spanish crisis is no such thing: it is in fact three big problems rolled into one huge and enduring mess. There is the financial collapse within the eurozone, in which over the past year the governments of first Greece then Ireland have been blocked from borrowing from financial markets at any but exorbitant interest rates. There is the meltdown of the Spanish property market, which has in turn triggered a crisis for both the cajas (regional savings banks) and the government treasury. And finally there is the long-run problem of Spain's labour market, where one in five workers are officially out of a job.These are three discrete areas, and they require different solutions to be implemented over varying periods. The problem is that the Spanish government has not had the opportunity to deal with those latter two domestic problems on its own timetable because of the first Europe-wide crisis. In his efforts to beat back the eurozone's financial bushfire and stop it from swallowing up Spain, the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, has been forced to bin election pledges and to concentrate on the ultra-short term.No one should expect that pressure to ease up any time soon. Yesterday the eurozone came under more pressure, as Standard & Poor's slashed its ratings on Portuguese and Greek sovereign debt. According to the credit rating agency, Portugal now stands on the brink of junk-borrower status. The reason for this, S&P's second downgrade of Portugal in less than a week, is that the likelihood is rising that Lisbon will have to be bailed out by the rest of the single-currency club. At the moment, this has all the hallmarks of a self-fulfilling prophecy: the interest rate on 10-year loans to the Portuguese state shot up again yesterday, taking the yield above 8%. That puts Lisbon far closer to the sovereign intensive-care ward of Dublin and Athens (where market interest rates are now over 10%) than it does to the likes of Berlin (which can get away with paying 3.3% on its 10-year loans).For the past year, Mr Zapatero has been desperately trying to prove to investors that Spain should not be lumped in with Portugal, let alone Greece and Ireland. His government has made sharper and faster spending cuts than it originally planned; after a delayed start, the central bank has launched a speedy clean-up of the troubled cajas. So far, the effort seems to be paying off \u2013 the interest rate on loans to Madrid is 5.2%, which indicates that the market judges its creditworthiness to be somewhere between Berlin and Lisbon. But if Portugal does call it quits and apply for a bailout (although how it will do that without a functioning government in place is an interesting thought experiment), traders and investors will once again ask if Madrid is next.The shame of all this is that Spain's problems, while large, are nothing like those of other southern European states. Its government did not go on a borrowing binge in the past decade; its households and companies did. True, public borrowing has risen sharply during Spain's severe recession \u2013 but that is largely because tax revenues have naturally collapsed. If Madrid does manage to keep the bond-market vigilantes from its door, that will still leave its policymakers with the huge job of rebuilding a broken economy. Going by the official figures, joblessness in Spain is the highest in the eurozone, while two in five young people are out of work. Officials refer to its \"dual\" labour market, in which a select group of workers have jobs for life, effectively, while the rest are on short-term contracts. Then there is the problem that much of Spanish industry is uncompetitive, with very low productivity. The sad reality is that even if Madrid is not dragged into the eurozone financial bushfire, it faces a long, slow haul to fix its economy.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Eurozone crisis: The pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-28T05:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Everything is as grey as granite. The skies, the mountains, the enormous crucifix hewn from the mountain rock \u2013 said to be one of the tallest in the world \u2013 and, in its shadow, the vast basilica of Valle de los Ca\u00eddos in the Sierra de Guadarrama, near Madrid, where rests the body of General Francisco Franco, the last dictator of Spain.Inside is no different. The church is as wide and tall as any cathedral, the distance from entrance to altar long enough to rival St Peter's in Rome. And all of it is filled with the cold, stone grey of the mountains. Above the pews, standing like sentries on their outsized columns, loom hooded statue monks, their granite hands resting on unsheathed swords, as if ready.At the altar 14 purple-clad Benedictine monks conduct morning mass, a solemn ceremony faithful to the most unchanged Catholic ritual. An altar boy rings a bell and, at that second, the lights are turned off, filling this cavernous place with darkness \u2013 save for the beam shining on Christ upon the cross.There is no denying the sheer, intimidating power of both spectacle and location: the Catholic-raised translator at my side gasps, confessing that he has never seen anything like it.Spain's socialist government understands the potency of Valle de los Ca\u00eddos, or Valley of the Fallen. Indeed, much energy has been devoted to taming it. Since 2009, the site has been closed to general visitors; only those attending mass are allowed. Just to make sure, a guard hands arrivals a slip of paper, reminding them that they are there \"for religious purposes only\".The result is that, on this sleeting March morning, the priests outnumber the congregation, with no more than 10 people in the pews.The official explanation is restoration work. But most believe the government wants to ward off those who might be drawn by the two words, etched into the church floor on the far side of the altar, accompanied by a simple cross, Francisco Franco: a burial spot marked on the day I visited by two bouquets, one made up of blood-red roses. Or perhaps by the plaque that honours Franco as the \"caudillo de Espa\u00f1a\" (military leader of Spain), who built the Valley of the Fallen in 1959, or by the sight of the Franco crest on the plaza walls outside.To be safe, on 20 November \u2013 the anniversary of the dictator's death in 1975 \u2013 visitors' car boots are checked to ensure they are not bringing in placards or flags associated with Franco's fascist Falange party.The government is considering legislation to deal with the Valle de los Ca\u00eddos, appointing a panel of historians to advise. Should there, for example, be an exhibition detailing the monument's history, explaining that much of it was built by up to 20,000 prisoners drawn from those Franco had defeated?The nervousness that surrounds the monument, an hour or so outside Madrid, is proof of the long shadow still cast by the event that defined 20th-century Spain: the civil war that began 75 years ago, when Franco mounted an army rebellion against the democratically elected government of the republic. Officially, the Spanish civil war ended in 1939, but as the acclaimed novelist Javier Cercas puts it when we meet in his Barcelona studio: \"This is the past that has not passed. The civil war is still here.\"Visit the fashionable La Casa Encendida gallery in Madrid and you can see the evidence. An exhibition by photographer Gervasio S\u00e1nchez on \"the disappeared\" shows bereaved families exhuming the remains of their loved ones from unmarked graves \u2013 something that has become a national phenomenon in Spain in the past decade.In village after village, the children and grandchildren of republicans who were executed and their bodies dumped have sought to find them and give them a decent burial.Those efforts now have state blessing, thanks to the law on historical memory passed by the Zapatero government in 2007, but they have sparked enormous controversy. Old wounds have been reopened: I was told of one village where a trio of elderly women broke into pro-Franco songs as the bones of long-dead, but still-hated, republicans were lowered into the ground.Or witness the fate of Spain's best-known judge, Baltasar Garz\u00f3n, who led the 1998 effort to bring Augusto Pinochet to justice. Having taken on corrupt politicians, international drug-traffickers and terrorists, he finally met his match in the ghosts of Spain's recent past. Last year he was suspended by the country's supreme court after he opened an investigation into the estimated 113,000 people executed by Franco's forces during and after the war.To be fair, even many republican sympathisers agree that Garz\u00f3n had overstepped the line, accusing him of folly in pursuing a crime whose chief perpetrator, Franco, is long dead.But there's no denying the rawness of the nerve he touched. One group agitating in Garz\u00f3n's defence brands its website Franco no ha muerto - Franco is not dead.Any attempt to explain the grip the Franco period still exerts starts with the simple matter of chronology. While Germany and Italy were rid of their dictators by 1945, the caudillo ruled 30 years longer. Whatever process of stocktaking their fellow western Europeans undertook was delayed for the Spanish by three decades.More deeply, Spain differs because while Hitler and Mussolini were utterly defeated, Franco won. \"Germans know that they were on the wrong side,\" says Javier Cercas, whose million-selling 2001 novel, Soldiers of Salamis, grappled with how Spain remembers its civil war \u2013 and whose mass success proved how much the question still burns. \"There was no blurring. In Spain, there's blurring. On German TV you can't see people saying Hitler was great. You can in Spain,\" he says, speaking of a Francoist nostalgia that has not been entirely extinguished.Part of it is generational, with grandchildren eager to look into experiences that were too close for their parents. Part of it is scale. With so much attention devoted to the crimes of Nazism, it's easy to forget the extent of the horrors committed in Spain.Nigel Townson, a British-born historian based in Madrid, says that the steady flow of revelations from the archives have shocked the Spanish, concluding that, with 50,000 killed even after the civil war had ended, Franco's rule amounts to \"the most severe peacetime repression in any country in Europe, barring the Soviet Union\".What all agree on is that Spain's \"pact of silence\" is now over. The phrase is widely misunderstood, thought to refer to an all-pervasive omerta that barred anyone in Spain speaking of the Franco past after his death, thereby keeping a lid on memories that was only recently blown off. \"Bullshit,\" says Cercas. \"Nonsense,\" says Townson, noting the 3,000 books published in Spanish on the civil war between 1975 and 1995 and the slew of TV documentaries, movies and newspaper articles that accompanied them. The real \"pact of silence\" was among the political classes, who agreed not to use the past as a weapon against each other during the post-1975 transition from dictatorship to democracy. Central to that pact was the 1977 amnesty law, which has ensured there has not been a single prosecution \u2013 not of Franco's men, nor of the republicans accused of massacres of their own (part of the case against Garz\u00f3n was that he was breaching the 1977 amnesty).Among the writers and intellectuals who debate such matters, many defend that accord of silence. \"We had to make an agreement in order not to fight another civil war,\" says the historian Jorge Reverte, who cheerfully describes himself as a red as we stand gazing at the iconic image of the 1936-39 conflict, Pablo Picasso's Guernica, which stills draws awestruck crowds at Madrid's Reina Sof\u00eda museum.That political armistice, broken in the last few years, was doubtless necessary. But it has come at a price.In order to have peace, many in Spain feel they have sacrificed justice. The murderers went unpunished and Franco died in his bed.What's more, Spain has lacked the catharsis that can come with a full reckoning with the past. There has been no equivalent of Germany's Willy Brandt moment, when the then-chancellor sank to his knees in atonement for the Holocaust.Could one yet come? Not from the rightwing People's party, which may well form Spain's next government. Several times I was told that too many luminaries of the PP have family ties with the Franco regime: they are the sons and daughters of those who served the caudillo. So far they have been wary of attacking Francoism for fear of seeming to condemn their own forebears.The church won't do it. Franco was, above all, a nationalist, authoritarian Catholic \u2013 and Francoist nostalgia is said to endure in Spain's ultra-traditionalist church.The obvious candidate is King Juan Carlos I, widely credited with holding the country together in the precarious years of transition and standing firm during the abortive coup attempt of 1981. But he too is hardly able to make the move. For he was Franco's chosen heir, whose coronation helped reassure Franco supporters, allowing them to accept the move to democracy.The task may fall instead to his son, Felipe. Or maybe, wonders Cercas, the healing can only come when \"the great-grandchildren\" take over \u2013 when every last person who lived through those events is as dead and silent as the Valley of the Fallen.", "tags": ["Francisco Franco", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain and the lingering legacy of Franco"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-12T13:54:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years has risen to nine after another victim died of injuries sustained when twin shocks hit the town of Lorca.Dozens more are still being treated in hospital in the aftermath of the two quakes, which happened on Wednesday evening.Residents of the town, which has a population of 92,000, began clearing rubble, with the regional government of Murcia estimating that 80% of buildings had been damaged.Thousands of people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside in fear of further tremors, and questions are being asked about how such apparently minor shocks could cause such havoc.Residents slept in tents and cardboard boxes, while hundreds more bedded down on the ground with nothing more than their clothes and blankets.Authorities put the number of injured at 120 and said two people were still in a serious condition. Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which had magnitudes of 4.4 and 5.2.\"They won't let us get our car out of the car park or go back into our house,\" Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, who spent the night in a park with his family, told El Pais newspaper.\"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"They were the longest and most terrifying 10 seconds of my life,\" supermarket worker Ana Espadas said, explaining that she and her companions fled their workplace after the second, larger quake hit.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, came across a boy who had been killed by masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do for him,\" he said.The town's mayor, Francisco J\u00f3dar, who vowed to get people under cover for Thursday night and declared three days of mourning.He warned: \"Today will be even longer than yesterday. Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.At least two of the dead were killed by falling masonry which crashed to the ground from an apartment building in one of the Lorca's poorer neighbourhoods.Some of those who began returning to their homes on Thursday morning reported serious damage, raising concerns about the quality of building work in an area known for normally low-level earthquakes.Engineers, architects and surveyors have begun the task of checking buildings for structural damage.Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey, said the town had been unlucky because the quake had happened two miles underground.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" he said. \"A magnitude 5.2 is not that big \u2013 it's not considered a large quake.\"Earthquakes normally strike at a depth of between six and 12 miles, meaning the shocks are more dispersed.\"On average there are probably about 1,000 magnitude 5 earthquakes every year, which is around three per day,\" he said.\"They mostly happen in the sea, or in remote places. It's only when you get one in a place like this where you get significant damage. It's certainly unlucky for the people of Lorca to get one so close and shallow.\"This was the deadliest quake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern Granada region.", "tags": ["Spain", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain shocked by deadly earthquake"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-12T13:54:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years has risen to nine after another victim died of injuries sustained when twin shocks hit the town of Lorca.Dozens more are still being treated in hospital in the aftermath of the two quakes, which happened on Wednesday evening.Residents of the town, which has a population of 92,000, began clearing rubble, with the regional government of Murcia estimating that 80% of buildings had been damaged.Thousands of people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside in fear of further tremors, and questions are being asked about how such apparently minor shocks could cause such havoc.Residents slept in tents and cardboard boxes, while hundreds more bedded down on the ground with nothing more than their clothes and blankets.Authorities put the number of injured at 120 and said two people were still in a serious condition. Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which had magnitudes of 4.4 and 5.2.\"They won't let us get our car out of the car park or go back into our house,\" Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, who spent the night in a park with his family, told El Pais newspaper.\"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"They were the longest and most terrifying 10 seconds of my life,\" supermarket worker Ana Espadas said, explaining that she and her companions fled their workplace after the second, larger quake hit.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, came across a boy who had been killed by masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do for him,\" he said.The town's mayor, Francisco J\u00f3dar, who vowed to get people under cover for Thursday night and declared three days of mourning.He warned: \"Today will be even longer than yesterday. Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.At least two of the dead were killed by falling masonry which crashed to the ground from an apartment building in one of the Lorca's poorer neighbourhoods.Some of those who began returning to their homes on Thursday morning reported serious damage, raising concerns about the quality of building work in an area known for normally low-level earthquakes.Engineers, architects and surveyors have begun the task of checking buildings for structural damage.Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey, said the town had been unlucky because the quake had happened two miles underground.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" he said. \"A magnitude 5.2 is not that big \u2013 it's not considered a large quake.\"Earthquakes normally strike at a depth of between six and 12 miles, meaning the shocks are more dispersed.\"On average there are probably about 1,000 magnitude 5 earthquakes every year, which is around three per day,\" he said.\"They mostly happen in the sea, or in remote places. It's only when you get one in a place like this where you get significant damage. It's certainly unlucky for the people of Lorca to get one so close and shallow.\"This was the deadliest quake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern Granada region.", "tags": ["Spain", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain shocked by deadly earthquake"},{"date": "2011-04-01T17:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is different. At school we learned that Napoleon had made this proclamation after losing at Bail\u00e9n on 19 July 1808: his first battlefield defeat. In the early 1960s, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the then minister for information and tourism, translated it into English, as a slogan designed to lure tourists to a country which promised nothing but sun and oranges, flamenco shows and glorious beaches.Now, two centuries after the military campaign and half a century after the marketing campaign, Spain is still different: a country alone, one which throughout the 20th century consistently went the other way, marching to a different beat to that which defined the development of other western nations (with the sole exception, relatively speaking, of Portugal).On the same date \u2013 19 July \u2013 in another year, 1936, the failure of a military coup unleashed a long, cruel and devastating civil war which lasted until April 1939, just as the second world war was dawning. Those involved in the coup only succeeded in destroying the Republic, a legally constituted democracy, helped on their way by the axis and \u2013 even more significantly \u2013 by the singular failure of democratic powers to intervene. The latter made the mistake of thinking that by sacrificing Spain they would dissuade Hitler from extending his talons still further across Europe. The consequences are so well-known they require no further comment.And so began the great historical anomaly of 20th-century Spain, the only country where fascism won a war and remained in power for almost four decades. And not only was the mighty modernising drive of the Second Republic stopped abruptly in its tracks; Franco took Spain right back to the middle of the 19th century.To give you an example: the Second Republic's penal code, one of the world's most advanced, was repealed in order to reinstate the laws of 1851. Women who had been granted the vote in 1933 \u2013 later only than in Britain, Australia and New Zealand \u2013 became perpetual minors, with no rights to inherit, manage their property or sign legal papers. The war \u2013 which plunged the country into unprecedented hardship, from which it wouldn't even begin to recover until 25 years later, in part thanks to tourism \u2013 was officially designated a crusade, on the basis that it was God's struggle against the Devil.Yet the identification of Catholic church with the state didn't mitigate a campaign of repression whose appalling scale we still don't really understand, and we may never succeed in doing so. Some historians estimate that it was responsible for the peacetime death of \u2013 at the very least \u2013 150,000 people.Thanks to the cold war, which meant that a bloodthirsty dictatorship was more appetising to the west than a democracy with a potent left wing, Spain reverted to being a humble, miserable and stagnant country, a country of women who went about in widow's veils, of men literally dying of fear. The terror, hunger and silence lasted for more than two decades, and still had a discernible effect on daily life for children of my generation in the 60s and 70s.Our parents would force us to eat everything on our plates, a throwback to the hunger which had defined their childhoods. They would snatch old photos from us to bury them hurriedly at the bottom of a drawer; and they would teach us what they had learned from our grandparents, that in the past there lay old, sad, unpleasant stories. Better not to talk about them, better to know nothing.The children of the soldiers who fought in the civil war grew up in this climate of silence. When Franco died and their country's destiny was suddenly in their hands, they could only do what they had learned to do: keep quiet, ask no questions, leave the layer of dust on the photos at the bottom of the drawer. This was the weak link in the transition to democracy, the inherent fragility of a process which, objectively speaking, represents a massive triumph, since it has cemented a secure, solid and stable democracy the likes of which Spain had never known before.For this very reason \u2013 because we now live in a humdrum, unshakeable democracy, no longer threatened as it was its early days \u2013 it's time to get our memory back. Thirty-six years after the death of Franco \u2013 the same amount of time he was in power \u2013 there is no longer any trait that links us, the Spanish people, however tenuously, to the imperial mania which the General\u00edsimo imposed through bloodshed and gunfire. Our here and now symbolises its failure and, at the same time, the posthumous \u2013 but in no way vain \u2013 victory of the republicans who fought to the death for one clear purpose: to bequeath us our country.It's time we recognised this, so that Spain can, at long last, stop being different.", "tags": ["Spain", "Francisco Franco", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain is different no more | Almudena Grandes"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-12T13:54:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years has risen to nine after another victim died of injuries sustained when twin shocks hit the town of Lorca.Dozens more are still being treated in hospital in the aftermath of the two quakes, which happened on Wednesday evening.Residents of the town, which has a population of 92,000, began clearing rubble, with the regional government of Murcia estimating that 80% of buildings had been damaged.Thousands of people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside in fear of further tremors, and questions are being asked about how such apparently minor shocks could cause such havoc.Residents slept in tents and cardboard boxes, while hundreds more bedded down on the ground with nothing more than their clothes and blankets.Authorities put the number of injured at 120 and said two people were still in a serious condition. Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which had magnitudes of 4.4 and 5.2.\"They won't let us get our car out of the car park or go back into our house,\" Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, who spent the night in a park with his family, told El Pais newspaper.\"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"They were the longest and most terrifying 10 seconds of my life,\" supermarket worker Ana Espadas said, explaining that she and her companions fled their workplace after the second, larger quake hit.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, came across a boy who had been killed by masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do for him,\" he said.The town's mayor, Francisco J\u00f3dar, who vowed to get people under cover for Thursday night and declared three days of mourning.He warned: \"Today will be even longer than yesterday. Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.At least two of the dead were killed by falling masonry which crashed to the ground from an apartment building in one of the Lorca's poorer neighbourhoods.Some of those who began returning to their homes on Thursday morning reported serious damage, raising concerns about the quality of building work in an area known for normally low-level earthquakes.Engineers, architects and surveyors have begun the task of checking buildings for structural damage.Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey, said the town had been unlucky because the quake had happened two miles underground.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" he said. \"A magnitude 5.2 is not that big \u2013 it's not considered a large quake.\"Earthquakes normally strike at a depth of between six and 12 miles, meaning the shocks are more dispersed.\"On average there are probably about 1,000 magnitude 5 earthquakes every year, which is around three per day,\" he said.\"They mostly happen in the sea, or in remote places. It's only when you get one in a place like this where you get significant damage. It's certainly unlucky for the people of Lorca to get one so close and shallow.\"This was the deadliest quake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern Granada region.", "tags": ["Spain", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain shocked by deadly earthquake"},{"date": "2011-04-01T17:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is different. At school we learned that Napoleon had made this proclamation after losing at Bail\u00e9n on 19 July 1808: his first battlefield defeat. In the early 1960s, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the then minister for information and tourism, translated it into English, as a slogan designed to lure tourists to a country which promised nothing but sun and oranges, flamenco shows and glorious beaches.Now, two centuries after the military campaign and half a century after the marketing campaign, Spain is still different: a country alone, one which throughout the 20th century consistently went the other way, marching to a different beat to that which defined the development of other western nations (with the sole exception, relatively speaking, of Portugal).On the same date \u2013 19 July \u2013 in another year, 1936, the failure of a military coup unleashed a long, cruel and devastating civil war which lasted until April 1939, just as the second world war was dawning. Those involved in the coup only succeeded in destroying the Republic, a legally constituted democracy, helped on their way by the axis and \u2013 even more significantly \u2013 by the singular failure of democratic powers to intervene. The latter made the mistake of thinking that by sacrificing Spain they would dissuade Hitler from extending his talons still further across Europe. The consequences are so well-known they require no further comment.And so began the great historical anomaly of 20th-century Spain, the only country where fascism won a war and remained in power for almost four decades. And not only was the mighty modernising drive of the Second Republic stopped abruptly in its tracks; Franco took Spain right back to the middle of the 19th century.To give you an example: the Second Republic's penal code, one of the world's most advanced, was repealed in order to reinstate the laws of 1851. Women who had been granted the vote in 1933 \u2013 later only than in Britain, Australia and New Zealand \u2013 became perpetual minors, with no rights to inherit, manage their property or sign legal papers. The war \u2013 which plunged the country into unprecedented hardship, from which it wouldn't even begin to recover until 25 years later, in part thanks to tourism \u2013 was officially designated a crusade, on the basis that it was God's struggle against the Devil.Yet the identification of Catholic church with the state didn't mitigate a campaign of repression whose appalling scale we still don't really understand, and we may never succeed in doing so. Some historians estimate that it was responsible for the peacetime death of \u2013 at the very least \u2013 150,000 people.Thanks to the cold war, which meant that a bloodthirsty dictatorship was more appetising to the west than a democracy with a potent left wing, Spain reverted to being a humble, miserable and stagnant country, a country of women who went about in widow's veils, of men literally dying of fear. The terror, hunger and silence lasted for more than two decades, and still had a discernible effect on daily life for children of my generation in the 60s and 70s.Our parents would force us to eat everything on our plates, a throwback to the hunger which had defined their childhoods. They would snatch old photos from us to bury them hurriedly at the bottom of a drawer; and they would teach us what they had learned from our grandparents, that in the past there lay old, sad, unpleasant stories. Better not to talk about them, better to know nothing.The children of the soldiers who fought in the civil war grew up in this climate of silence. When Franco died and their country's destiny was suddenly in their hands, they could only do what they had learned to do: keep quiet, ask no questions, leave the layer of dust on the photos at the bottom of the drawer. This was the weak link in the transition to democracy, the inherent fragility of a process which, objectively speaking, represents a massive triumph, since it has cemented a secure, solid and stable democracy the likes of which Spain had never known before.For this very reason \u2013 because we now live in a humdrum, unshakeable democracy, no longer threatened as it was its early days \u2013 it's time to get our memory back. Thirty-six years after the death of Franco \u2013 the same amount of time he was in power \u2013 there is no longer any trait that links us, the Spanish people, however tenuously, to the imperial mania which the General\u00edsimo imposed through bloodshed and gunfire. Our here and now symbolises its failure and, at the same time, the posthumous \u2013 but in no way vain \u2013 victory of the republicans who fought to the death for one clear purpose: to bequeath us our country.It's time we recognised this, so that Spain can, at long last, stop being different.", "tags": ["Spain", "Francisco Franco", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain is different no more | Almudena Grandes"},{"date": "2011-05-20T08:21:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police and tens of thousands of young protesters camped out in dozens of Spanish cities are heading for a clash after the country's electoral authorities effectively ordered the government to dissolve the protests.The committee declared that the protests contravened Spain's election laws, which ban campaigning the day before a vote. Municipal and regional government elections are to be held on Sunday amid a climate of growing anger over government austerity, spending cuts and 21% unemployment.\"They [the protests] are against electoral legislation ... and cannot happen,\" the committee ruled.More than 10,000 people gathered in support of the protesters camped out at a makeshift tent city in Madrid's central Puerta del Sol square in the early hours of Friday morning, greeting with boos and whistles the decision that they must leave.The peaceful protesters, who called another of their four or five hour open assemblies on Friday to debate the issue, looked unlikely to shift after thousands settled down to spend a fifth night in the Puerta del Sol.\"On Saturday 21 May we will continue with the exercise of collective reflection between all those attending the spontaneous meetings to have emerged in recent days,\" a statement from the Madrid protesters said on Friday morning.\"This is the most people we have had so far,\" said Jero, one of the spokesmen who have become part of the increasingly sophisticated infrastructure of an otherwise chaotic protest movement with disparate demands and united only by mistrust of the country's political elites.Similar protests were being held in Barcelona's Plaza de Catalunya and 60 cities across the country.As rightwing commentators accused the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialist government of allowing \"extremists\" to take over the streets, the government this week faced a serious dilemma.It had previously indicated that, having moved protesters out of the Puerta del Sol earlier this week, it was unlikely to act against them again. But that was before the electoral commission banned the protests. \"We have to listen and be sensitive, because there are reasons why they are expressing their unhappiness and their criticism,\" Zapatero said on Thursday.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Spain bans young protesters ahead of elections"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-12T13:54:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years has risen to nine after another victim died of injuries sustained when twin shocks hit the town of Lorca.Dozens more are still being treated in hospital in the aftermath of the two quakes, which happened on Wednesday evening.Residents of the town, which has a population of 92,000, began clearing rubble, with the regional government of Murcia estimating that 80% of buildings had been damaged.Thousands of people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside in fear of further tremors, and questions are being asked about how such apparently minor shocks could cause such havoc.Residents slept in tents and cardboard boxes, while hundreds more bedded down on the ground with nothing more than their clothes and blankets.Authorities put the number of injured at 120 and said two people were still in a serious condition. Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which had magnitudes of 4.4 and 5.2.\"They won't let us get our car out of the car park or go back into our house,\" Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, who spent the night in a park with his family, told El Pais newspaper.\"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"They were the longest and most terrifying 10 seconds of my life,\" supermarket worker Ana Espadas said, explaining that she and her companions fled their workplace after the second, larger quake hit.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, came across a boy who had been killed by masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do for him,\" he said.The town's mayor, Francisco J\u00f3dar, who vowed to get people under cover for Thursday night and declared three days of mourning.He warned: \"Today will be even longer than yesterday. Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.At least two of the dead were killed by falling masonry which crashed to the ground from an apartment building in one of the Lorca's poorer neighbourhoods.Some of those who began returning to their homes on Thursday morning reported serious damage, raising concerns about the quality of building work in an area known for normally low-level earthquakes.Engineers, architects and surveyors have begun the task of checking buildings for structural damage.Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey, said the town had been unlucky because the quake had happened two miles underground.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" he said. \"A magnitude 5.2 is not that big \u2013 it's not considered a large quake.\"Earthquakes normally strike at a depth of between six and 12 miles, meaning the shocks are more dispersed.\"On average there are probably about 1,000 magnitude 5 earthquakes every year, which is around three per day,\" he said.\"They mostly happen in the sea, or in remote places. It's only when you get one in a place like this where you get significant damage. It's certainly unlucky for the people of Lorca to get one so close and shallow.\"This was the deadliest quake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern Granada region.", "tags": ["Spain", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain shocked by deadly earthquake"},{"date": "2011-04-01T17:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is different. At school we learned that Napoleon had made this proclamation after losing at Bail\u00e9n on 19 July 1808: his first battlefield defeat. In the early 1960s, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the then minister for information and tourism, translated it into English, as a slogan designed to lure tourists to a country which promised nothing but sun and oranges, flamenco shows and glorious beaches.Now, two centuries after the military campaign and half a century after the marketing campaign, Spain is still different: a country alone, one which throughout the 20th century consistently went the other way, marching to a different beat to that which defined the development of other western nations (with the sole exception, relatively speaking, of Portugal).On the same date \u2013 19 July \u2013 in another year, 1936, the failure of a military coup unleashed a long, cruel and devastating civil war which lasted until April 1939, just as the second world war was dawning. Those involved in the coup only succeeded in destroying the Republic, a legally constituted democracy, helped on their way by the axis and \u2013 even more significantly \u2013 by the singular failure of democratic powers to intervene. The latter made the mistake of thinking that by sacrificing Spain they would dissuade Hitler from extending his talons still further across Europe. The consequences are so well-known they require no further comment.And so began the great historical anomaly of 20th-century Spain, the only country where fascism won a war and remained in power for almost four decades. And not only was the mighty modernising drive of the Second Republic stopped abruptly in its tracks; Franco took Spain right back to the middle of the 19th century.To give you an example: the Second Republic's penal code, one of the world's most advanced, was repealed in order to reinstate the laws of 1851. Women who had been granted the vote in 1933 \u2013 later only than in Britain, Australia and New Zealand \u2013 became perpetual minors, with no rights to inherit, manage their property or sign legal papers. The war \u2013 which plunged the country into unprecedented hardship, from which it wouldn't even begin to recover until 25 years later, in part thanks to tourism \u2013 was officially designated a crusade, on the basis that it was God's struggle against the Devil.Yet the identification of Catholic church with the state didn't mitigate a campaign of repression whose appalling scale we still don't really understand, and we may never succeed in doing so. Some historians estimate that it was responsible for the peacetime death of \u2013 at the very least \u2013 150,000 people.Thanks to the cold war, which meant that a bloodthirsty dictatorship was more appetising to the west than a democracy with a potent left wing, Spain reverted to being a humble, miserable and stagnant country, a country of women who went about in widow's veils, of men literally dying of fear. The terror, hunger and silence lasted for more than two decades, and still had a discernible effect on daily life for children of my generation in the 60s and 70s.Our parents would force us to eat everything on our plates, a throwback to the hunger which had defined their childhoods. They would snatch old photos from us to bury them hurriedly at the bottom of a drawer; and they would teach us what they had learned from our grandparents, that in the past there lay old, sad, unpleasant stories. Better not to talk about them, better to know nothing.The children of the soldiers who fought in the civil war grew up in this climate of silence. When Franco died and their country's destiny was suddenly in their hands, they could only do what they had learned to do: keep quiet, ask no questions, leave the layer of dust on the photos at the bottom of the drawer. This was the weak link in the transition to democracy, the inherent fragility of a process which, objectively speaking, represents a massive triumph, since it has cemented a secure, solid and stable democracy the likes of which Spain had never known before.For this very reason \u2013 because we now live in a humdrum, unshakeable democracy, no longer threatened as it was its early days \u2013 it's time to get our memory back. Thirty-six years after the death of Franco \u2013 the same amount of time he was in power \u2013 there is no longer any trait that links us, the Spanish people, however tenuously, to the imperial mania which the General\u00edsimo imposed through bloodshed and gunfire. Our here and now symbolises its failure and, at the same time, the posthumous \u2013 but in no way vain \u2013 victory of the republicans who fought to the death for one clear purpose: to bequeath us our country.It's time we recognised this, so that Spain can, at long last, stop being different.", "tags": ["Spain", "Francisco Franco", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain is different no more | Almudena Grandes"},{"date": "2011-05-20T08:21:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police and tens of thousands of young protesters camped out in dozens of Spanish cities are heading for a clash after the country's electoral authorities effectively ordered the government to dissolve the protests.The committee declared that the protests contravened Spain's election laws, which ban campaigning the day before a vote. Municipal and regional government elections are to be held on Sunday amid a climate of growing anger over government austerity, spending cuts and 21% unemployment.\"They [the protests] are against electoral legislation ... and cannot happen,\" the committee ruled.More than 10,000 people gathered in support of the protesters camped out at a makeshift tent city in Madrid's central Puerta del Sol square in the early hours of Friday morning, greeting with boos and whistles the decision that they must leave.The peaceful protesters, who called another of their four or five hour open assemblies on Friday to debate the issue, looked unlikely to shift after thousands settled down to spend a fifth night in the Puerta del Sol.\"On Saturday 21 May we will continue with the exercise of collective reflection between all those attending the spontaneous meetings to have emerged in recent days,\" a statement from the Madrid protesters said on Friday morning.\"This is the most people we have had so far,\" said Jero, one of the spokesmen who have become part of the increasingly sophisticated infrastructure of an otherwise chaotic protest movement with disparate demands and united only by mistrust of the country's political elites.Similar protests were being held in Barcelona's Plaza de Catalunya and 60 cities across the country.As rightwing commentators accused the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialist government of allowing \"extremists\" to take over the streets, the government this week faced a serious dilemma.It had previously indicated that, having moved protesters out of the Puerta del Sol earlier this week, it was unlikely to act against them again. But that was before the electoral commission banned the protests. \"We have to listen and be sensitive, because there are reasons why they are expressing their unhappiness and their criticism,\" Zapatero said on Thursday.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Spain bans young protesters ahead of elections"},{"date": "2011-05-12T18:20:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years rose to nine on Thursday as questions were raised about how two relatively mild shocks caused such extensive destruction in the eastern town of Lorca.Dozens of injured were still being treated in hospital following Wednesday evening's quakes and thousands were expected to spend a second night in tents and shelters.\"Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls,\" said mayor Francisc\u00f3 Jodar.Structural engineers were putting red stickers on the fronts of buildings too dangerous to occupy, with at least some expected to be demolished.Jodar said 90% of homes in the town, which has 92,000 residents, were habitable but officials from the regional government of Murcia previously claimed 80% were damaged. Some buildings had collapsed completely.Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which measured 4.4 and 5.2 on the Richter scale. Up to 20,000 people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside fearing further tremors.\"An earthquake of 5.2 magnitude is not intense enough to produce collapses, so the damage done is due to previous damage,\" said Luis Su\u00e1rez, president of the Geological Society of Spain. The earlier damage may have been caused by the 4.4 magnitude quake that came first.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, said he had come across a boy killed by falling masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do,\" he said.Another witness, Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, spent the night in a park with his family. He told the Spanish newspaper El Pais: \"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.Experts said the town had been unlucky to be hit because the quake's epicentre was close by and just two miles underground, rather than at the usual depth of between six and 12 miles.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the \u2013 epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" said Roger Musson of the British Geological Survey.This was the deadliest earthquake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern region of Granada. The country's last fatal earthquake was in 1969.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain earthquake raises questions over building safety"},{"date": "2011-05-23T23:01:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This was a car crash in slow motion and many in Spain's ruling socialist party saw it coming. Their 20/20 vision didn't make the impact\u00a0any less painful. On Sunday the socialist vote collapsed. They lost power in most cities\u00a0and almost all of the 17 autonomous regions, their worst result in local elections in three decades.With a general election looming in less than a year, the party now faces the prospect of haemorrhaging votes to both right and left. Town halls and regional governments, which jointly account for half of all spending and most of the welfare state, will be in the hands of the rightwing Popular party. They will increase the pace of the spending cuts. But to the left also, the socialists are being shunned by the \"indignant ones\", the youth generation of protesters who have taken possession of squares and parks throughout Spain.How far is the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Lu\u00eds Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, personally to blame? His first incarnation was Keynes-lite. Focused on the record unemployment, he set Spain on a course which would allow it to work its way out of trouble. Then came the credit crunch, and the markets started treating Germany and Spain very differently. With the great and the good to advise him \u2013 economists Joe Stiglitz and Paul Krugman \u2013 Zapatero announced a programme of gradual spending cuts.But then Greece happened, and Ireland was to follow. Spanish economists may despise the trader's acronym PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain) and with it the association with Europe's imploding periphery. But the pressure from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, grew until Barack Obama himself was on the line. Zapatero performed a spectacular U-turn in May last year, cutting civil service pay by 5% and \u20ac6bn of investments. The rest is history. He has been unable since to persuade Spain that a brighter day will dawn. The country probably has less to reproach its prime minister for than either Germany or the eurozone. Unable to devalue his currency, Zapatero was trapped. But that is not how voters saw it on Sunday.Disenchantment with mainstream politics is growing \u2013 one in 25 voters spoiled their ballot papers, although 66% of an angry electorate turned out. Having drowned out the socialists, the protest movement of Puerta del Sol and dozens of other city squares will have a harder time with the right in power. But they should stay put until they produce a coherent set of demands. The movement should neither be co-opted nor ignored. The fact that such debate is happening in squares, rather than parliaments, only shows how wide the gap between established politics and people's lives has grown.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Look forward in anger | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-11T23:31:56Z", "country": "spain", "content": "An earthquake struck the south-eastern Spanish city of Lorca on Wednesday, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens amid scenes of chaos caused by the country's worst quake for half a century.Falling bell towers, walls and masonry brought panic to the streets of a small city that lies in an area known for minor earthquakes, but where residents could not recall such an intense quake in living memory.The earthquake was magnitude 5.1 and came at 6.47pm local time, almost two hours after a 4.4 magnitude quake had already caused considerable damage and forced many people out of their homes into the city's streets.The quake was felt in the neighbouring provinces of Almer\u00eda, Granada and Albacete, but the worst of the damage was done in Lorca, in the province of Murcia, where people were staying outside as aftershocks struck. Up to 10,000 people were expected to camp out at the city's fairground.More than 300 troops and extra police with search and rescue teams were being drafted into the city to look for the dead and injured and clear away the rubble.City mayor Francisco J\u00f3dar called for water, blankets, food and mattresses to be brought in from neighbouring towns.\"People don't dare go back into their homes. I can't tell them to go home and spend the night there as I can't promise them that there will not be another quake,\" he said.A reporter broadcasting live for state television station TVE narrowly escaped being hit by the facade of a church's falling bell tower.A 13th-century tower in the city's castle was also reported to have been seriously damaged by the force of the quake.Patients had to be evacuated from the city hospital, which was damaged.TV pictures and news photographs appeared to show at least one building that had fallen across a city street, along with images of cars crushed by falling rubble, fallen walls and large cracks in buildings.\"I felt a tremendously strong movement, followed by a lot of noise, and I was really frightened,\" resident Juani Avellanada told El Pa\u00eds.Another resident, Juana Ru\u00edz, told the newspaper her house had split open with the quake and \"all the furniture fell over.\"Spain's last major quake was in 1956, when 12 people died in the province of Granada.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: Lorca shaken by earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-05-12T13:54:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years has risen to nine after another victim died of injuries sustained when twin shocks hit the town of Lorca.Dozens more are still being treated in hospital in the aftermath of the two quakes, which happened on Wednesday evening.Residents of the town, which has a population of 92,000, began clearing rubble, with the regional government of Murcia estimating that 80% of buildings had been damaged.Thousands of people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside in fear of further tremors, and questions are being asked about how such apparently minor shocks could cause such havoc.Residents slept in tents and cardboard boxes, while hundreds more bedded down on the ground with nothing more than their clothes and blankets.Authorities put the number of injured at 120 and said two people were still in a serious condition. Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which had magnitudes of 4.4 and 5.2.\"They won't let us get our car out of the car park or go back into our house,\" Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, who spent the night in a park with his family, told El Pais newspaper.\"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"They were the longest and most terrifying 10 seconds of my life,\" supermarket worker Ana Espadas said, explaining that she and her companions fled their workplace after the second, larger quake hit.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, came across a boy who had been killed by masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do for him,\" he said.The town's mayor, Francisco J\u00f3dar, who vowed to get people under cover for Thursday night and declared three days of mourning.He warned: \"Today will be even longer than yesterday. Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.At least two of the dead were killed by falling masonry which crashed to the ground from an apartment building in one of the Lorca's poorer neighbourhoods.Some of those who began returning to their homes on Thursday morning reported serious damage, raising concerns about the quality of building work in an area known for normally low-level earthquakes.Engineers, architects and surveyors have begun the task of checking buildings for structural damage.Roger Musson, a seismologist at the British Geological Survey, said the town had been unlucky because the quake had happened two miles underground.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" he said. \"A magnitude 5.2 is not that big \u2013 it's not considered a large quake.\"Earthquakes normally strike at a depth of between six and 12 miles, meaning the shocks are more dispersed.\"On average there are probably about 1,000 magnitude 5 earthquakes every year, which is around three per day,\" he said.\"They mostly happen in the sea, or in remote places. It's only when you get one in a place like this where you get significant damage. It's certainly unlucky for the people of Lorca to get one so close and shallow.\"This was the deadliest quake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern Granada region.", "tags": ["Spain", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Europe", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain shocked by deadly earthquake"},{"date": "2011-04-01T17:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is different. At school we learned that Napoleon had made this proclamation after losing at Bail\u00e9n on 19 July 1808: his first battlefield defeat. In the early 1960s, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the then minister for information and tourism, translated it into English, as a slogan designed to lure tourists to a country which promised nothing but sun and oranges, flamenco shows and glorious beaches.Now, two centuries after the military campaign and half a century after the marketing campaign, Spain is still different: a country alone, one which throughout the 20th century consistently went the other way, marching to a different beat to that which defined the development of other western nations (with the sole exception, relatively speaking, of Portugal).On the same date \u2013 19 July \u2013 in another year, 1936, the failure of a military coup unleashed a long, cruel and devastating civil war which lasted until April 1939, just as the second world war was dawning. Those involved in the coup only succeeded in destroying the Republic, a legally constituted democracy, helped on their way by the axis and \u2013 even more significantly \u2013 by the singular failure of democratic powers to intervene. The latter made the mistake of thinking that by sacrificing Spain they would dissuade Hitler from extending his talons still further across Europe. The consequences are so well-known they require no further comment.And so began the great historical anomaly of 20th-century Spain, the only country where fascism won a war and remained in power for almost four decades. And not only was the mighty modernising drive of the Second Republic stopped abruptly in its tracks; Franco took Spain right back to the middle of the 19th century.To give you an example: the Second Republic's penal code, one of the world's most advanced, was repealed in order to reinstate the laws of 1851. Women who had been granted the vote in 1933 \u2013 later only than in Britain, Australia and New Zealand \u2013 became perpetual minors, with no rights to inherit, manage their property or sign legal papers. The war \u2013 which plunged the country into unprecedented hardship, from which it wouldn't even begin to recover until 25 years later, in part thanks to tourism \u2013 was officially designated a crusade, on the basis that it was God's struggle against the Devil.Yet the identification of Catholic church with the state didn't mitigate a campaign of repression whose appalling scale we still don't really understand, and we may never succeed in doing so. Some historians estimate that it was responsible for the peacetime death of \u2013 at the very least \u2013 150,000 people.Thanks to the cold war, which meant that a bloodthirsty dictatorship was more appetising to the west than a democracy with a potent left wing, Spain reverted to being a humble, miserable and stagnant country, a country of women who went about in widow's veils, of men literally dying of fear. The terror, hunger and silence lasted for more than two decades, and still had a discernible effect on daily life for children of my generation in the 60s and 70s.Our parents would force us to eat everything on our plates, a throwback to the hunger which had defined their childhoods. They would snatch old photos from us to bury them hurriedly at the bottom of a drawer; and they would teach us what they had learned from our grandparents, that in the past there lay old, sad, unpleasant stories. Better not to talk about them, better to know nothing.The children of the soldiers who fought in the civil war grew up in this climate of silence. When Franco died and their country's destiny was suddenly in their hands, they could only do what they had learned to do: keep quiet, ask no questions, leave the layer of dust on the photos at the bottom of the drawer. This was the weak link in the transition to democracy, the inherent fragility of a process which, objectively speaking, represents a massive triumph, since it has cemented a secure, solid and stable democracy the likes of which Spain had never known before.For this very reason \u2013 because we now live in a humdrum, unshakeable democracy, no longer threatened as it was its early days \u2013 it's time to get our memory back. Thirty-six years after the death of Franco \u2013 the same amount of time he was in power \u2013 there is no longer any trait that links us, the Spanish people, however tenuously, to the imperial mania which the General\u00edsimo imposed through bloodshed and gunfire. Our here and now symbolises its failure and, at the same time, the posthumous \u2013 but in no way vain \u2013 victory of the republicans who fought to the death for one clear purpose: to bequeath us our country.It's time we recognised this, so that Spain can, at long last, stop being different.", "tags": ["Spain", "Francisco Franco", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain is different no more | Almudena Grandes"},{"date": "2011-05-20T08:21:58Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police and tens of thousands of young protesters camped out in dozens of Spanish cities are heading for a clash after the country's electoral authorities effectively ordered the government to dissolve the protests.The committee declared that the protests contravened Spain's election laws, which ban campaigning the day before a vote. Municipal and regional government elections are to be held on Sunday amid a climate of growing anger over government austerity, spending cuts and 21% unemployment.\"They [the protests] are against electoral legislation ... and cannot happen,\" the committee ruled.More than 10,000 people gathered in support of the protesters camped out at a makeshift tent city in Madrid's central Puerta del Sol square in the early hours of Friday morning, greeting with boos and whistles the decision that they must leave.The peaceful protesters, who called another of their four or five hour open assemblies on Friday to debate the issue, looked unlikely to shift after thousands settled down to spend a fifth night in the Puerta del Sol.\"On Saturday 21 May we will continue with the exercise of collective reflection between all those attending the spontaneous meetings to have emerged in recent days,\" a statement from the Madrid protesters said on Friday morning.\"This is the most people we have had so far,\" said Jero, one of the spokesmen who have become part of the increasingly sophisticated infrastructure of an otherwise chaotic protest movement with disparate demands and united only by mistrust of the country's political elites.Similar protests were being held in Barcelona's Plaza de Catalunya and 60 cities across the country.As rightwing commentators accused the prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialist government of allowing \"extremists\" to take over the streets, the government this week faced a serious dilemma.It had previously indicated that, having moved protesters out of the Puerta del Sol earlier this week, it was unlikely to act against them again. But that was before the electoral commission banned the protests. \"We have to listen and be sensitive, because there are reasons why they are expressing their unhappiness and their criticism,\" Zapatero said on Thursday.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Spain bans young protesters ahead of elections"},{"date": "2011-05-12T18:20:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The death toll in Spain's worst earthquake for 50 years rose to nine on Thursday as questions were raised about how two relatively mild shocks caused such extensive destruction in the eastern town of Lorca.Dozens of injured were still being treated in hospital following Wednesday evening's quakes and thousands were expected to spend a second night in tents and shelters.\"Lorca looks like Beirut, with everything on the ground and huge cracks in the walls,\" said mayor Francisc\u00f3 Jodar.Structural engineers were putting red stickers on the fronts of buildings too dangerous to occupy, with at least some expected to be demolished.Jodar said 90% of homes in the town, which has 92,000 residents, were habitable but officials from the regional government of Murcia previously claimed 80% were damaged. Some buildings had collapsed completely.Two pregnant women and a child were among those who died in the quakes, which measured 4.4 and 5.2 on the Richter scale. Up to 20,000 people spent Wednesday night in squares, parks and nearby countryside fearing further tremors.\"An earthquake of 5.2 magnitude is not intense enough to produce collapses, so the damage done is due to previous damage,\" said Luis Su\u00e1rez, president of the Geological Society of Spain. The earlier damage may have been caused by the 4.4 magnitude quake that came first.One witness, who gave his name as Cecilio, said he had come across a boy killed by falling masonry while walking the family dog. \"The mother was calling out 'help me, help me', but there was nothing we could do,\" he said.Another witness, Joaqu\u00edn Rom\u00e1n, spent the night in a park with his family. He told the Spanish newspaper El Pais: \"It was awful. I was walking down the street when suddenly masonry started falling off the buildings and people fell on to the ground like puppets.\"Rescue teams, military personnel and bulldozers moved into the town on Thursday morning to clear away rubble, which included one three-storey building that had collapsed across a street.Experts said the town had been unlucky to be hit because the quake's epicentre was close by and just two miles underground, rather than at the usual depth of between six and 12 miles.\"It's only really caused such damage because it was so shallow and the \u2013 epicentre was so close to the town of Lorca,\" said Roger Musson of the British Geological Survey.This was the deadliest earthquake in Spain since 1956, when 12 people died and 70 were injured in the southern region of Granada. The country's last fatal earthquake was in 1969.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Spain earthquake raises questions over building safety"},{"date": "2011-04-01T23:04:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Near the Pr\u00edncipe and Isla gardens and the Royal Palace, this 18-room hotel in the world heritage-listed city of Aranju\u00e9z, 47km south of Madrid, is calm and relaxed. The overall feel is of grown-up but unshowy chic (the odd zebra-print lampshade aside) with cream, toffee and aubergine colours, and wooden floors and doors. A bar and lounge provide plenty of chill-out space, but grab a seat or cushion in the vast interior courtyard (discreetly overlooked by some of the bedrooms) for the ultimate in summer escapism.\u2022 +34 918 754 350, elcocheron1919.com. Doubles from \u20ac78Pitched somewhere between a designer hostel and a boutique hotel, this Barcelona bolthole plugs an obvious gap in the market, catering to travellers with champagne tastes and beer budgets. Its rooms are simple, modern and smart, with shiny white paintwork set off by glass screens, beech shelving and flatscreen TVs. If you want more space, supersize your booking by opting for an \"economy plus\" or \"business\" room rather than a standard double. Though, of course, what you save on sleeping you can spend on tapas; the hotel is in the Gothic quarter, ideal for grazing.\u2022 +34 935 454 000, denit.com. Doubles from \u20ac89Farnals, ValenciaCan't decide between city and coast? You can have your holiday cake and eat it at this Valencia hotel. The closest you'll get to Miami this side of Seville, Hotel de la Playa is a sparkling box of a building, painted the colour of Mr Whippy and set right by the beach. Its dozen neatly stacked rooms are sleek and white, with big windows and balconies looking out over palm trees, sand and surf.\u2022 +34 961 468 464, hoteldelaplaya.com. Doubles from \u20ac85 if you stay three nightsThis is the latest property to join the welcomebeyond.com fold, a \"hand-picked\" holiday property portal run by two Berlin hipsters, but you'll have to move quickly if you want to bag some dates at these two flats in Girona's old town. It's a successful marriage between ancient and modern \u2013 Alemanys 5's architect owner has taken stone, concrete and wood, and spun them into a thing of wonder, set apart by soft lighting, natural textures and such show-stopping features as an open fire, balcony and minimalist pool. And the dining table is on wheels, so it can be moved from the kitchen to the veranda on sunny evenings.\u2022 +34 649 885 136, alemanys5.com. Alemanys 5 can be rented as a whole (up to 11) or as two flats (from two to six); flat for four from \u20ac180 per night or from \u20ac360 for the whole house; discounts for smaller parties and long-term rentalsWhen independent tourists began exploring another side of the Canaries \u2013 one that veered away from the happy-hour hell of the big resorts and out to its wild beaches, black soil vineyards and historic villages \u2013 this hotel in the centre of Lanzarote was one of the first places they started checking into, and it's still going strong. Caser\u00edo de Mozaga has real wow factor, from its chic candlelit restaurant to bedrooms that blend family heirlooms with contemporary finca style and a general Ibiza-ish vibe.\u2022 +34 928 520 060, caseriodemozaga.com. Doubles from \u20ac63Run by the fifth generation of the Echaurren dynasty, this foodie outpost in wine-producing Rioja was the first restaurant in the region to win a Michelin star, and continues to draw in gastronauts with its recipe of well-priced accommodation and fine food (there are two main restaurants plus a bistro and a tapas-centred gastrobar). Be warned, though, that with people coming here to eat rather than sleep, the bedrooms themselves are not as luxe \u2013 or as stylish \u2013 as the eating areas.\u2022 +34 941 354 047, echaurren.com. Doubles from \u20ac70This place might breach our \u00a3100-a-night limit, but it's worth the extra for such an acutely hip hotel. Set among olive and almond groves outside Teruel, this design-savvy escape is steeped in relaxation and respite. Guests can choose from two rooms in the main building \u2013 a Nordic room featuring Alvar Aalto lamps and Danish furniture or a baroque room dressed with velvet armchairs and gilded paintings \u2013 or 10 individual \"Kubes\" that come with black slate baths, private terraces, floor-to-ceiling windows and toiletries made with local herbs. There's also a sleek outdoor pool, a library, a restaurant and a \"playground\" complete with TV and Wi-Fi, and at night you can DJ your own tunes.\u2022 +34 978 856 755, consolacion.com.es. Doubles from \u20ac135It was love that brought Simon Beckmann and his wife Donna to this off-the-beaten-track corner near Almer\u00eda. Having passed through on their honeymoon, the couple (they're both artists) decided to return and the result is this seriously stylish guesthouse. Genuine eco credentials are another draw: solar panels, wind turbines, wood from the surrounding almond, pine and poplar trees, and a grey-water recycling system help make the retreat carbon neutral. And while many guests come for the creative courses the couple run \u2013 the latest is a food illustration course that combines trips to local markets with artistic instruction \u2013 if you want to unwind it's possible to book in just for B&B.\u2022 +34 020 31 372 096, losgazquez.com. Doubles from \u20ac85 (minimum two nights) From the outside, this six-room hotel, in the countryside east of Bilbao is like any other. Inside, though, things are not what they seem; it's a real surprise just how contemporary the interior is. Expect slate floors, Tom Dixon lights, a pared-down aesthetic and an overall monochrome colour scheme interspersed with jelly baby colours.\u2022 +34 650 402 775, aldori.es. Doubles from \u20ac70You might not expect a former foundry to feel cosy, but that's exactly the deal at Hotel Ansotegi in the hills between Bilbao and San Sebasti\u00e1n. The buildings include a manor house, foundry and mill, and they've been renovated and reimagined as a contemporary country escape. With its exposed stone walls, wooden beams, red velvet sofas and wood fires, this is the perfect place to retreat to after a day spent swimming in the local river or exploring ancient monasteries.\u2022 +34 94 616 9100, hotelansotegi.com. Doubles from \u20ac100Opened just last year in a former convent, this hotel boasts stylish (if fittingly low-key) rooms and fairytale 17th-century architecture, but its main claim to fame is its setting, on one of the largest estates in Europe. The surrounding 16,000 hectares are mainly used for producing cork and pork (Iberian mountain pigs), and it is reached via a forest track. Hiking, biking and horse riding are on tap.\u2022 +34 956 693 002, laalmoraimahotel.com. Doubles from \u20ac60Tired of lookalike boutique hotels? There is no chance of pleather and wenge fatigue at this genuinely one\u2011off\u00a0hotel in the hills just outside Granada. Fresh flowers, a pool shaded by olive trees, sun-dappled terraces looking out across the Sierra Nevada natural park, bedrooms that veer towards the more homely side of chic and the distractions of Granada five miles away; if you could shrink-wrap the quintessential summer holiday, it would probably look like this.\u2022 +34 958 308 010, laalmuniadelvalle.com. Doubles from \u20ac100A comfortable hideout for hikers, lovers or peace-seekers, this remote retreat in the Matarra\u00f1a mountains is surrounding by medieval villages, terraced vineyards, ancient oak trees and not a lot more. Go now if you want solitude; online booking agent i-escape is promoting this area of Spain as the new Tuscany. The hotel may be a 17th-century stone farmhouse but the facilities are strictly 21st century, not least its cool outdoor pool. Surprised by the (tasteful) smattering of tartan? The owner, a documentary film-maker, is from the Grant's whisky family.\u2022 07970 610 316, i-escape.com/mas-de-la-serra/overview. Doubles from \u20ac110Not everyone likes to leave behind their urban sensibilities when they visit the sticks. If the idea of angled steel, glass, wood and stone appeals, but also cotton curtains, cosy rugs and views out across village rooftops to vineyards, this modern Galician hotel could be just the thing. Unusually for a hotel in this price bracket there's also a pretty lavish spa.\u2022 +34 918 595 665, bit.ly/eAXKZh. Doubles from \u20ac92A slice of Balearic living on the mainland, this laid-back hotel, 15 minutes' drive from the beach south of Tarragona, helps guests make the most of the southern sunshine with cushioned terraces to lounge on, simple tiled or wooden-floored rooms to retreat to and shady olive, fig and almond groves to explore. It's a proper \"gastrotel\", with a vegetable garden providing some of the produce served in its restaurant and a list of local wines.\u2022 +34 977 262 601, masmariassa.com. Doubles from \u20ac90 if you stay three nightsNot your usual seaside hotel, this village house outside Santander is less than a couple of kilometres from the coast but feels like it's way up in the hills. Conventional on the outside, it's anything but inside, with pared-back decor, simple colour schemes and lots of glass, letting the mountain, forest and sea views take centre stage. Though the hotel serves great home-cooked meals, seafood lovers will definitely want to explore other options: all the surrounding fishing villages mean the restaurants here serve some of the freshest fish in northern Spain.\u2022 +34 985 853 272, elbabu.com. Doubles from \u20ac78There are so many chi-chi hotels in and around the small white town of Vejer de la Frontera that you're in serious danger of getting tangled up in an Issa kaftan or being bashed by a Bottega Veneta tote bag as you stroll through its quaint streets. If your budget doesn't stretch to the swankier places in town, this small hotel, in a former apothecary, does a nice line in simple, hippy chic. Its 12 clean, white rooms, interior courtyard and roof terrace are speckled with colourful tiles and fabrics.\u2022 +34 956 450 225, laboticadevejer.com. Doubles from \u20ac60Squeezed between Mount Galatzo and the Mediterranean, Hotel Nord is perfectly positioned to cover almost any interest. Hiking, bird-watching and cycling are all possible around the village. Or wander down to the nearest cove for swimming, sailing or lolling with a book. The village itself is very pretty and the hotel, right in the centre, mixes traditional and modern to good effect. Breakfast and dinner are served in the flower-filled courtyard.\u2022 +34 971 149 006, hotelruralnord.com. Doubles from \u20ac88Low-key and intimate, this hotel is set\u00a0by a pine-fringed cove not far from\u00a0the city of Girona, and is about as\u00a0far as you can get from the stereotypical image of a holiday on the costas. Here you can take your pick from one of five simple bedrooms and hide away from the world in laid-back comfort. There's\u00a0also a lovely restaurant; grab a\u00a0candlelit outdoor table when the evenings start getting\u00a0warm.\u2022 +34 972 622 845, hostalsarascassa.com. Doubles from \u20ac80; minimum two-night stay at weekends, four nights in July and seven in August\"The Almond and the Gypsy\" is still a\u00a0relative rarity among Almer\u00eda hotels, with only five very elegant rooms, a minimalist pool, a 300-year-old oak tree and a remote location (though you\u00a0can still get to the beach within 10\u00a0minutes or so). It's set in the Cabo\u00a0de Gata natural park, so big skies\u00a0and open landscapes reign. You can book massages (\u20ac50)\u00a0and dinner (with a day's notice, \u20ac50 for two people), though most guests trip down to the neighbouring village to eat.\u2022 +34 67 850 2911, laalmendrayelgitano.com. Doubles from \u20ac110This article was amended on 19 April. The original version said that the Caser\u00edo de Mozaga in Lanzarote is a former dairy, which was incorrect", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Hotels", "Beach holidays", "City breaks", "Andalucia holidays", "Catalonia holidays", "Madrid holidays", "Barcelona holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Buenas noches: budget hotels in Spain"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-06T13:02:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bruno Su\u00e1rez, 35, wasn't planning to leave Spain, but after three years as a consultant for a telecommunications multinational in Madrid he thought it was time for a change. He knew there were few openings in computer systems in crisis-ridden Spain and that working conditions and wages were increasingly tough, but he was prepared to accept a 20% drop in pay. \"With 10 years' experience, I realised I could only hope for \u20ac24,000 to \u20ac30,000 a year [$35,000 to $50,000], which was a big step backwards. When I left university in 2000 I was already getting \u20ac24,000,\" Su\u00e1rez\u00a0says.So he looked farther afield to London. After four interviews he was hired by a telecommunications firm in August 2010. \"They made what seemed like a reasonable offer \u2013 \u00a345,000 ($73,000) a year. I can live on that, save a bit, travel and maybe buy a house,\" Suarez says.More and more Spaniards are making similar choices. After years of sustained growth, fuelled by a property boom, and the influx of 4 million immigrants sure of finding a job, Spain has a serious hangover and foreign parts suddenly look much more attractive. \"Brazil is booming. It looks fabulously optimistic and great things seem possible,\" says Paco Conde, 37. He is about to leave his birthplace in Madrid for the first time. Currently the creative director of one of Madrid's top advertising agencies, he is moving to Rio de Janeiro on 15 January next year. A new job awaits him there, with \"much better pay\", greater responsibility and the prospect of larger campaigns. \"I knew I couldn't hope for anything better in Spain,\" he says. \"With the crisis clients are starting to cut back, which limits our scope for eye-catching international projects.\"Several of Conde's friends have left in recent months, with \"three people at work going in just a fortnight\". His brother moved to London three years ago. With no qualifications, he couldn't face the prospect of endless casual jobs and a minimum wage of \u20ac640 ($920) a month. Now, as a waiter in a gourmet restaurant in London, he keeps telling his brother it's the best move he ever made. When someone mentioned an opening in Brazil, Conde and his partner decided to take the plunge. He does not speak Portuguese, but Spanish or English will do the job. He has no friends in Rio, but he hopes to make new ones, particularly as plenty of other Spaniards have chosen the same destination. The Spanish foreign ministry is currently handling about 40 applications a day for work or study visas in Brazil.Others have set their sights on Germany. In January, Der Spiegel published an article on German plans to look for highly qualified recruits in southern Europe, prompting hundreds of young people to rush to the embassy in Madrid. Alfonso Calder\u00f3n, an architect, was already living in Berlin. \"I did an Erasmus year in Hamburg, which I enjoyed, but thought I'd leave it at that,\" he recalls. Now aged 32, he graduated in 2006 and had no difficulty finding work in Madrid. But in 2008 the construction boom ground to a halt. \"In 2010, I went seven months without work, so I decided to leave,\" he adds. He has been in Berlin for nine months now. \"Contrary to what the media say, it's not that easy to find work, particularly for architects. I must have sent out about 120 CVs and have only had three interviews.\" But in October he started an internship. \"I have to start from scratch,\" he says, \"but I'd rather be in Germany than Spain where the outlook is grim.\"Su\u00e1rez, meanwhile, has been in London for the past year. He has been promoted to the position of lead producer, heads a team of three, and has negotiated his first pay rise. \"If I'd stayed in Spain, I expect I'd be very depressed,\" he says. People are badly paid, do appalling jobs they won't leave for fear of ending up on the dole. Everyone talks about the crisis and nothing else \u2013 customers who don't pay, families gone broke and banks, in the midst of this mess, still making a profit.\"He joined about 400 London-based indignados for a demonstration outside the Spanish embassy in May. \"The most characteristic thing about Spain was once its love of fiesta,\" Suarez says. \"Now it's the indignados. We almost joined the G8 countries, now one in five people is unemployed. How come you can earn a decent living in France, Germany or the UK whereas in Spain young super-qualified graduates have to scrape by on \u20ac400 ($570) a month?\"He sees no prospect of going home. \"We certainly won't go back to Spain, at least not for 10 or 15 years. It'll take quite a while to sort out 21% unemployment.\"Spain's population grew by 700,000 a year between 2002 and 2007. With the financial crisis, net inward migration fell to 400,000 in 2008, plummeting to 47,000 in 2009 and 62,000 in 2010.This year it went into the red, with Spain losing 70,000 residents in the first six months. Even with a surplus of 43,000 births, the country's population dropped by 27,000 between January and June.\"The negative migration balance is mainly due to immigrants returning home,\" says Julio Perez, a population specialist at Spain's Scientific Research Council (CSIC). \"What surprises me is that the figure isn't higher in view of Spain's 21% rate of unemployment,\" he adds.Of the 70,000 residents lost so far this year, 63,000 were foreigners, most of whom were working in the building trade.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Spain", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "Moving overseas"], "title": "El Dorado is over for Spain"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-06T13:02:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bruno Su\u00e1rez, 35, wasn't planning to leave Spain, but after three years as a consultant for a telecommunications multinational in Madrid he thought it was time for a change. He knew there were few openings in computer systems in crisis-ridden Spain and that working conditions and wages were increasingly tough, but he was prepared to accept a 20% drop in pay. \"With 10 years' experience, I realised I could only hope for \u20ac24,000 to \u20ac30,000 a year [$35,000 to $50,000], which was a big step backwards. When I left university in 2000 I was already getting \u20ac24,000,\" Su\u00e1rez\u00a0says.So he looked farther afield to London. After four interviews he was hired by a telecommunications firm in August 2010. \"They made what seemed like a reasonable offer \u2013 \u00a345,000 ($73,000) a year. I can live on that, save a bit, travel and maybe buy a house,\" Suarez says.More and more Spaniards are making similar choices. After years of sustained growth, fuelled by a property boom, and the influx of 4 million immigrants sure of finding a job, Spain has a serious hangover and foreign parts suddenly look much more attractive. \"Brazil is booming. It looks fabulously optimistic and great things seem possible,\" says Paco Conde, 37. He is about to leave his birthplace in Madrid for the first time. Currently the creative director of one of Madrid's top advertising agencies, he is moving to Rio de Janeiro on 15 January next year. A new job awaits him there, with \"much better pay\", greater responsibility and the prospect of larger campaigns. \"I knew I couldn't hope for anything better in Spain,\" he says. \"With the crisis clients are starting to cut back, which limits our scope for eye-catching international projects.\"Several of Conde's friends have left in recent months, with \"three people at work going in just a fortnight\". His brother moved to London three years ago. With no qualifications, he couldn't face the prospect of endless casual jobs and a minimum wage of \u20ac640 ($920) a month. Now, as a waiter in a gourmet restaurant in London, he keeps telling his brother it's the best move he ever made. When someone mentioned an opening in Brazil, Conde and his partner decided to take the plunge. He does not speak Portuguese, but Spanish or English will do the job. He has no friends in Rio, but he hopes to make new ones, particularly as plenty of other Spaniards have chosen the same destination. The Spanish foreign ministry is currently handling about 40 applications a day for work or study visas in Brazil.Others have set their sights on Germany. In January, Der Spiegel published an article on German plans to look for highly qualified recruits in southern Europe, prompting hundreds of young people to rush to the embassy in Madrid. Alfonso Calder\u00f3n, an architect, was already living in Berlin. \"I did an Erasmus year in Hamburg, which I enjoyed, but thought I'd leave it at that,\" he recalls. Now aged 32, he graduated in 2006 and had no difficulty finding work in Madrid. But in 2008 the construction boom ground to a halt. \"In 2010, I went seven months without work, so I decided to leave,\" he adds. He has been in Berlin for nine months now. \"Contrary to what the media say, it's not that easy to find work, particularly for architects. I must have sent out about 120 CVs and have only had three interviews.\" But in October he started an internship. \"I have to start from scratch,\" he says, \"but I'd rather be in Germany than Spain where the outlook is grim.\"Su\u00e1rez, meanwhile, has been in London for the past year. He has been promoted to the position of lead producer, heads a team of three, and has negotiated his first pay rise. \"If I'd stayed in Spain, I expect I'd be very depressed,\" he says. People are badly paid, do appalling jobs they won't leave for fear of ending up on the dole. Everyone talks about the crisis and nothing else \u2013 customers who don't pay, families gone broke and banks, in the midst of this mess, still making a profit.\"He joined about 400 London-based indignados for a demonstration outside the Spanish embassy in May. \"The most characteristic thing about Spain was once its love of fiesta,\" Suarez says. \"Now it's the indignados. We almost joined the G8 countries, now one in five people is unemployed. How come you can earn a decent living in France, Germany or the UK whereas in Spain young super-qualified graduates have to scrape by on \u20ac400 ($570) a month?\"He sees no prospect of going home. \"We certainly won't go back to Spain, at least not for 10 or 15 years. It'll take quite a while to sort out 21% unemployment.\"Spain's population grew by 700,000 a year between 2002 and 2007. With the financial crisis, net inward migration fell to 400,000 in 2008, plummeting to 47,000 in 2009 and 62,000 in 2010.This year it went into the red, with Spain losing 70,000 residents in the first six months. Even with a surplus of 43,000 births, the country's population dropped by 27,000 between January and June.\"The negative migration balance is mainly due to immigrants returning home,\" says Julio Perez, a population specialist at Spain's Scientific Research Council (CSIC). \"What surprises me is that the figure isn't higher in view of Spain's 21% rate of unemployment,\" he adds.Of the 70,000 residents lost so far this year, 63,000 were foreigners, most of whom were working in the building trade.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Spain", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "Moving overseas"], "title": "El Dorado is over for Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-29T18:50:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish authorities have warned the country's youth against a homemade drug that has killed two people and put another two in hospital.Two 18-year-olds died and a 20-year-old fell seriously ill after they were given a drug brewed from the leaf of the thorn apple plant at a rave in the Madrid commuter town of Getafe on 21 August.Seeds and leaves from the thorn apple, which is also known as devil's trumpet or devil's weed, are hallucinogenic and dangerous \u2013 though scientists warn that the whole plant, including its flowers, can seriously damage health.Side-effects include an increased pulse, muscular twitches, diarrhoea, convulsions, coma and death.The thorn apple comes from the same family of plants as belladonna, otherwise known as deadly nightshade.A man was released on bail on Monday to await trial on homicide charges. Spanish newspapers said he had been trying to \"create a market\" for the drug by giving it away.A fourth victim was admitted to hospital in Badajoz, western Spain, in a coma over the weekend after taking the drug. He came out of his coma on Monday. Dr Elena G\u00e1lvez of Badajoz's Infanta Cristina hospital said: \"Even though the patient is progressing, he is still fighting for his life.\"The mayor of Getafe has ordered municipal staff to destroy the plant, which grows wild, wherever they find it. Town halls elsewhere in Spain have issued similar orders.", "tags": ["Spain", "Drugs", "Europe", "World news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Homemade drug kills two teenagers in Spain"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-06T13:02:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bruno Su\u00e1rez, 35, wasn't planning to leave Spain, but after three years as a consultant for a telecommunications multinational in Madrid he thought it was time for a change. He knew there were few openings in computer systems in crisis-ridden Spain and that working conditions and wages were increasingly tough, but he was prepared to accept a 20% drop in pay. \"With 10 years' experience, I realised I could only hope for \u20ac24,000 to \u20ac30,000 a year [$35,000 to $50,000], which was a big step backwards. When I left university in 2000 I was already getting \u20ac24,000,\" Su\u00e1rez\u00a0says.So he looked farther afield to London. After four interviews he was hired by a telecommunications firm in August 2010. \"They made what seemed like a reasonable offer \u2013 \u00a345,000 ($73,000) a year. I can live on that, save a bit, travel and maybe buy a house,\" Suarez says.More and more Spaniards are making similar choices. After years of sustained growth, fuelled by a property boom, and the influx of 4 million immigrants sure of finding a job, Spain has a serious hangover and foreign parts suddenly look much more attractive. \"Brazil is booming. It looks fabulously optimistic and great things seem possible,\" says Paco Conde, 37. He is about to leave his birthplace in Madrid for the first time. Currently the creative director of one of Madrid's top advertising agencies, he is moving to Rio de Janeiro on 15 January next year. A new job awaits him there, with \"much better pay\", greater responsibility and the prospect of larger campaigns. \"I knew I couldn't hope for anything better in Spain,\" he says. \"With the crisis clients are starting to cut back, which limits our scope for eye-catching international projects.\"Several of Conde's friends have left in recent months, with \"three people at work going in just a fortnight\". His brother moved to London three years ago. With no qualifications, he couldn't face the prospect of endless casual jobs and a minimum wage of \u20ac640 ($920) a month. Now, as a waiter in a gourmet restaurant in London, he keeps telling his brother it's the best move he ever made. When someone mentioned an opening in Brazil, Conde and his partner decided to take the plunge. He does not speak Portuguese, but Spanish or English will do the job. He has no friends in Rio, but he hopes to make new ones, particularly as plenty of other Spaniards have chosen the same destination. The Spanish foreign ministry is currently handling about 40 applications a day for work or study visas in Brazil.Others have set their sights on Germany. In January, Der Spiegel published an article on German plans to look for highly qualified recruits in southern Europe, prompting hundreds of young people to rush to the embassy in Madrid. Alfonso Calder\u00f3n, an architect, was already living in Berlin. \"I did an Erasmus year in Hamburg, which I enjoyed, but thought I'd leave it at that,\" he recalls. Now aged 32, he graduated in 2006 and had no difficulty finding work in Madrid. But in 2008 the construction boom ground to a halt. \"In 2010, I went seven months without work, so I decided to leave,\" he adds. He has been in Berlin for nine months now. \"Contrary to what the media say, it's not that easy to find work, particularly for architects. I must have sent out about 120 CVs and have only had three interviews.\" But in October he started an internship. \"I have to start from scratch,\" he says, \"but I'd rather be in Germany than Spain where the outlook is grim.\"Su\u00e1rez, meanwhile, has been in London for the past year. He has been promoted to the position of lead producer, heads a team of three, and has negotiated his first pay rise. \"If I'd stayed in Spain, I expect I'd be very depressed,\" he says. People are badly paid, do appalling jobs they won't leave for fear of ending up on the dole. Everyone talks about the crisis and nothing else \u2013 customers who don't pay, families gone broke and banks, in the midst of this mess, still making a profit.\"He joined about 400 London-based indignados for a demonstration outside the Spanish embassy in May. \"The most characteristic thing about Spain was once its love of fiesta,\" Suarez says. \"Now it's the indignados. We almost joined the G8 countries, now one in five people is unemployed. How come you can earn a decent living in France, Germany or the UK whereas in Spain young super-qualified graduates have to scrape by on \u20ac400 ($570) a month?\"He sees no prospect of going home. \"We certainly won't go back to Spain, at least not for 10 or 15 years. It'll take quite a while to sort out 21% unemployment.\"Spain's population grew by 700,000 a year between 2002 and 2007. With the financial crisis, net inward migration fell to 400,000 in 2008, plummeting to 47,000 in 2009 and 62,000 in 2010.This year it went into the red, with Spain losing 70,000 residents in the first six months. Even with a surplus of 43,000 births, the country's population dropped by 27,000 between January and June.\"The negative migration balance is mainly due to immigrants returning home,\" says Julio Perez, a population specialist at Spain's Scientific Research Council (CSIC). \"What surprises me is that the figure isn't higher in view of Spain's 21% rate of unemployment,\" he adds.Of the 70,000 residents lost so far this year, 63,000 were foreigners, most of whom were working in the building trade.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Spain", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "Moving overseas"], "title": "El Dorado is over for Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-29T18:50:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish authorities have warned the country's youth against a homemade drug that has killed two people and put another two in hospital.Two 18-year-olds died and a 20-year-old fell seriously ill after they were given a drug brewed from the leaf of the thorn apple plant at a rave in the Madrid commuter town of Getafe on 21 August.Seeds and leaves from the thorn apple, which is also known as devil's trumpet or devil's weed, are hallucinogenic and dangerous \u2013 though scientists warn that the whole plant, including its flowers, can seriously damage health.Side-effects include an increased pulse, muscular twitches, diarrhoea, convulsions, coma and death.The thorn apple comes from the same family of plants as belladonna, otherwise known as deadly nightshade.A man was released on bail on Monday to await trial on homicide charges. Spanish newspapers said he had been trying to \"create a market\" for the drug by giving it away.A fourth victim was admitted to hospital in Badajoz, western Spain, in a coma over the weekend after taking the drug. He came out of his coma on Monday. Dr Elena G\u00e1lvez of Badajoz's Infanta Cristina hospital said: \"Even though the patient is progressing, he is still fighting for his life.\"The mayor of Getafe has ordered municipal staff to destroy the plant, which grows wild, wherever they find it. Town halls elsewhere in Spain have issued similar orders.", "tags": ["Spain", "Drugs", "Europe", "World news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Homemade drug kills two teenagers in Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-26T18:43:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish politicians took a dramatic step to try to win back market confidence by agreeing on a reform of the country's constitution to introduce a cap on future deficits.The socialist party (PSOE) of outgoing prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero and the conservative opposition People's party (PP) said the cap would come into effect in 2020. The limit will be set at 0.4% and will effect all levels of Spain's highly devolved administration, including the regional governments that run health and education.The move came at the end of a month that has seen Spain's sovereign debt under severe pressure in the markets, amid fears that it might need a bailout similar to those of fellow eurozone nations Portugal, Greece or Ireland. It also came a week after Germany's Angela Merkel and France's Nicolas Sarkozy called for eurozone countries to establish legal limits on their deficits to integrate their economies. So far only Germany has such a cap.Spanish politicians claimed the measure was a step towards eurozone integration. \"August has been a month of financial instability. Investors have lost confidence in the eurozone,\" said Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the PSOE candidate for prime minister in November's general election. \"We have to win back confidence and show we are solvent.\"The PP, led by Mariano Rajoy, had been demanding such a measure for years. \"We want to be amongst the countries in the vanguard of European economic policy,\" said spokeswoman Soraya Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda.With more than 90% of deputies between them, the two parties can push through constitutional change before parliament is dissolved on 27 September.Unlike Germany, Spain will not specify the size of the deficit cap in the constitution. According to the draft, the new clause will merely say a cap must be set by either the European Union or, in its absence, the Spanish parliament. The limit could also be broken at times of recession or national crisis.Germany's constitution imposes a 0.35% cap by 2016. Spain's 0.4% limit will be set initially by a separate law.Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda claimed the agreement would force future governments to keep debt below an EU-set limit of 60% of GDP. However, Spain's debt is expected to hit 65% of GDP this year, below the eurozone average and behind Germany, France, Britain and the US. The IMF recently estimated it would total around 75% of GDP by 2016. While the new measure is meant to calm markets, it will have no impact on Spain's current deficit.Figures released on Friday show annual GDP growth slipped to 0.7% in the second quarter, making it difficult to reach the government's predicted 1.3% for 2011.Zapatero surprised many in his party on Tuesday when he announced he and Rajoy had agreed to change the constitution. Opinion polls show the socialists trailing the PP. The socialist regional leader in Andalucia, Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gri\u00f1\u00e1n, called the change \"a grave error\". Left-wing critics claimed it would lead to cuts in social spending.Only a rebellion by socialist deputies, however, could stop the measure going through.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Spain changes constitution to cap budget deficit"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-06T13:02:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bruno Su\u00e1rez, 35, wasn't planning to leave Spain, but after three years as a consultant for a telecommunications multinational in Madrid he thought it was time for a change. He knew there were few openings in computer systems in crisis-ridden Spain and that working conditions and wages were increasingly tough, but he was prepared to accept a 20% drop in pay. \"With 10 years' experience, I realised I could only hope for \u20ac24,000 to \u20ac30,000 a year [$35,000 to $50,000], which was a big step backwards. When I left university in 2000 I was already getting \u20ac24,000,\" Su\u00e1rez\u00a0says.So he looked farther afield to London. After four interviews he was hired by a telecommunications firm in August 2010. \"They made what seemed like a reasonable offer \u2013 \u00a345,000 ($73,000) a year. I can live on that, save a bit, travel and maybe buy a house,\" Suarez says.More and more Spaniards are making similar choices. After years of sustained growth, fuelled by a property boom, and the influx of 4 million immigrants sure of finding a job, Spain has a serious hangover and foreign parts suddenly look much more attractive. \"Brazil is booming. It looks fabulously optimistic and great things seem possible,\" says Paco Conde, 37. He is about to leave his birthplace in Madrid for the first time. Currently the creative director of one of Madrid's top advertising agencies, he is moving to Rio de Janeiro on 15 January next year. A new job awaits him there, with \"much better pay\", greater responsibility and the prospect of larger campaigns. \"I knew I couldn't hope for anything better in Spain,\" he says. \"With the crisis clients are starting to cut back, which limits our scope for eye-catching international projects.\"Several of Conde's friends have left in recent months, with \"three people at work going in just a fortnight\". His brother moved to London three years ago. With no qualifications, he couldn't face the prospect of endless casual jobs and a minimum wage of \u20ac640 ($920) a month. Now, as a waiter in a gourmet restaurant in London, he keeps telling his brother it's the best move he ever made. When someone mentioned an opening in Brazil, Conde and his partner decided to take the plunge. He does not speak Portuguese, but Spanish or English will do the job. He has no friends in Rio, but he hopes to make new ones, particularly as plenty of other Spaniards have chosen the same destination. The Spanish foreign ministry is currently handling about 40 applications a day for work or study visas in Brazil.Others have set their sights on Germany. In January, Der Spiegel published an article on German plans to look for highly qualified recruits in southern Europe, prompting hundreds of young people to rush to the embassy in Madrid. Alfonso Calder\u00f3n, an architect, was already living in Berlin. \"I did an Erasmus year in Hamburg, which I enjoyed, but thought I'd leave it at that,\" he recalls. Now aged 32, he graduated in 2006 and had no difficulty finding work in Madrid. But in 2008 the construction boom ground to a halt. \"In 2010, I went seven months without work, so I decided to leave,\" he adds. He has been in Berlin for nine months now. \"Contrary to what the media say, it's not that easy to find work, particularly for architects. I must have sent out about 120 CVs and have only had three interviews.\" But in October he started an internship. \"I have to start from scratch,\" he says, \"but I'd rather be in Germany than Spain where the outlook is grim.\"Su\u00e1rez, meanwhile, has been in London for the past year. He has been promoted to the position of lead producer, heads a team of three, and has negotiated his first pay rise. \"If I'd stayed in Spain, I expect I'd be very depressed,\" he says. People are badly paid, do appalling jobs they won't leave for fear of ending up on the dole. Everyone talks about the crisis and nothing else \u2013 customers who don't pay, families gone broke and banks, in the midst of this mess, still making a profit.\"He joined about 400 London-based indignados for a demonstration outside the Spanish embassy in May. \"The most characteristic thing about Spain was once its love of fiesta,\" Suarez says. \"Now it's the indignados. We almost joined the G8 countries, now one in five people is unemployed. How come you can earn a decent living in France, Germany or the UK whereas in Spain young super-qualified graduates have to scrape by on \u20ac400 ($570) a month?\"He sees no prospect of going home. \"We certainly won't go back to Spain, at least not for 10 or 15 years. It'll take quite a while to sort out 21% unemployment.\"Spain's population grew by 700,000 a year between 2002 and 2007. With the financial crisis, net inward migration fell to 400,000 in 2008, plummeting to 47,000 in 2009 and 62,000 in 2010.This year it went into the red, with Spain losing 70,000 residents in the first six months. Even with a surplus of 43,000 births, the country's population dropped by 27,000 between January and June.\"The negative migration balance is mainly due to immigrants returning home,\" says Julio Perez, a population specialist at Spain's Scientific Research Council (CSIC). \"What surprises me is that the figure isn't higher in view of Spain's 21% rate of unemployment,\" he adds.Of the 70,000 residents lost so far this year, 63,000 were foreigners, most of whom were working in the building trade.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Spain", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "Moving overseas"], "title": "El Dorado is over for Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-29T18:50:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish authorities have warned the country's youth against a homemade drug that has killed two people and put another two in hospital.Two 18-year-olds died and a 20-year-old fell seriously ill after they were given a drug brewed from the leaf of the thorn apple plant at a rave in the Madrid commuter town of Getafe on 21 August.Seeds and leaves from the thorn apple, which is also known as devil's trumpet or devil's weed, are hallucinogenic and dangerous \u2013 though scientists warn that the whole plant, including its flowers, can seriously damage health.Side-effects include an increased pulse, muscular twitches, diarrhoea, convulsions, coma and death.The thorn apple comes from the same family of plants as belladonna, otherwise known as deadly nightshade.A man was released on bail on Monday to await trial on homicide charges. Spanish newspapers said he had been trying to \"create a market\" for the drug by giving it away.A fourth victim was admitted to hospital in Badajoz, western Spain, in a coma over the weekend after taking the drug. He came out of his coma on Monday. Dr Elena G\u00e1lvez of Badajoz's Infanta Cristina hospital said: \"Even though the patient is progressing, he is still fighting for his life.\"The mayor of Getafe has ordered municipal staff to destroy the plant, which grows wild, wherever they find it. Town halls elsewhere in Spain have issued similar orders.", "tags": ["Spain", "Drugs", "Europe", "World news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Homemade drug kills two teenagers in Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-26T18:43:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish politicians took a dramatic step to try to win back market confidence by agreeing on a reform of the country's constitution to introduce a cap on future deficits.The socialist party (PSOE) of outgoing prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero and the conservative opposition People's party (PP) said the cap would come into effect in 2020. The limit will be set at 0.4% and will effect all levels of Spain's highly devolved administration, including the regional governments that run health and education.The move came at the end of a month that has seen Spain's sovereign debt under severe pressure in the markets, amid fears that it might need a bailout similar to those of fellow eurozone nations Portugal, Greece or Ireland. It also came a week after Germany's Angela Merkel and France's Nicolas Sarkozy called for eurozone countries to establish legal limits on their deficits to integrate their economies. So far only Germany has such a cap.Spanish politicians claimed the measure was a step towards eurozone integration. \"August has been a month of financial instability. Investors have lost confidence in the eurozone,\" said Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the PSOE candidate for prime minister in November's general election. \"We have to win back confidence and show we are solvent.\"The PP, led by Mariano Rajoy, had been demanding such a measure for years. \"We want to be amongst the countries in the vanguard of European economic policy,\" said spokeswoman Soraya Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda.With more than 90% of deputies between them, the two parties can push through constitutional change before parliament is dissolved on 27 September.Unlike Germany, Spain will not specify the size of the deficit cap in the constitution. According to the draft, the new clause will merely say a cap must be set by either the European Union or, in its absence, the Spanish parliament. The limit could also be broken at times of recession or national crisis.Germany's constitution imposes a 0.35% cap by 2016. Spain's 0.4% limit will be set initially by a separate law.Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda claimed the agreement would force future governments to keep debt below an EU-set limit of 60% of GDP. However, Spain's debt is expected to hit 65% of GDP this year, below the eurozone average and behind Germany, France, Britain and the US. The IMF recently estimated it would total around 75% of GDP by 2016. While the new measure is meant to calm markets, it will have no impact on Spain's current deficit.Figures released on Friday show annual GDP growth slipped to 0.7% in the second quarter, making it difficult to reach the government's predicted 1.3% for 2011.Zapatero surprised many in his party on Tuesday when he announced he and Rajoy had agreed to change the constitution. Opinion polls show the socialists trailing the PP. The socialist regional leader in Andalucia, Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gri\u00f1\u00e1n, called the change \"a grave error\". Left-wing critics claimed it would lead to cuts in social spending.Only a rebellion by socialist deputies, however, could stop the measure going through.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Spain changes constitution to cap budget deficit"},{"date": "2011-07-29T09:42:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "With markets already deeply worried about the outlook for sovereign debt on both sides of the Atlantic, they also have to contend with the ISM [manufacturing] and labour reports in the US and central bank meetings in the eurozone, UK, Japan and Australia [next week]. We still have hopes that US politicians will eventually come to some form of agreement that will prevent a default, but the loss of the AAA rating is looking probable if a long term austerity package is not approved. The deadline the politicians are working to is 2 August for the debt ceiling to be breached. However, in reality there is likely to be a buffer that will take us into the following week given stronger than anticipated tax revenues.With the storm clouds which had gathered over Greece abating, if not disappearing, Moody's has now turned its attention to Spain. And unsurprisingly, it doesn't like what it sees. Spain's banking sector remains in turmoil, unemployment is sky high, and its debt is out of control.Prime Minister Zapatero is perenially upbeat, but the fact is he has almost no way of creating growth. Even with its second bailout, Greece is almost certain to default. When, not if, this happens, the pressure will move to the eurozone's other weak peripheral economies. That pressure will centre on the biggest peripheral - Spain. With its credit rating slipping further, it will struggle to borrow enough to keep itself afloat and could easily become the next Greece.The euro has already fallen today in response, but you might be forgiven for not noticing. With the UK's poor GDP figures this week and the ongoing paralysis over the US debt ceiling, sterling, the euro and the dollar all seem to be locked in a race to the bottom.I am no longer sure if this is reality or I am watching a Hollywood summer blockbuster. With no resolution with regard to the US debt ceiling and with continuing contagion in the European government debt market it is clearly time for the safe haven trade.While it's debatable whether Spain could be described as facing similar challenges to Greece just yet, it's worth remembering that the yield on its 10-year bond has risen by just under 60bps since the start of the month. Lending is all about confidence and as we have seen with Greece, Ireland and Portugal once yields start to creep higher it doesn't take long for confidence to seep away making it more difficult for the borrower to fund.US futures are sharply down on the back of the failure of the Boehner bill re the debt ceiling not even being voted on because of a lack of support. No doubt heads will be knocked together over the weekend and a compromise will be reached in order to avoid a default. That said maybe I am being too optimistic because I am approaching the situation from a logical standpoint whereas a lot of the people actually involved might be approaching it from a political or at least a non-rationale viewpoint. Whilst it is not going to happen wouldn't right now be a great time for the EU to announce common European bonds in order to alleviate pressure on the troubled sovereigns and also provide the market with an alternative to Treasuries.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Spain", "World news", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Spain downgrade threat: what the experts say"},{"date": "2011-09-29T15:17:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's attempts to reduce its national debt has suffered a blow after it was revealed that the multibillion-euro plan to sell off the state lottery company has been shelved because of adverse market conditions.The decision means that the \u20ac7bn (\u00a36.07bn) windfall that Spain had hoped to reap from the sell-off of Loter\u00edas \u2013 the country's biggest privatisation \u2013 will now not appear. On the other hand, the \u20ac3bn a year that the company brings in with the famous Christmas lottery known as El Gordo, or The Fatty, and other draws or pools competitions will continue to go entirely to the Spanish exchequer.The float of 30% of the company was due to be led by UBS, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan Cazenove and Goldman Sachs after fierce jostling by banks in the City of London.But Elena Salgado, the finance minister, said that, for the moment, Spain would be better off holding on to what is a generous cash earner. \"The lead managers said they were not sure that we could get the price that they and the government believe it is worth,\" she said.Major Spanish banks such as Santander and BBVA were also rumoured to have opposed the float, saying it would draw deposits away from them.Loter\u00edas reported a profit of just under \u20ac3bn in 2009 on sales of \u20ac9.8bn and controls 77% of Spain's lottery market.Spaniards bet some \u20ac2.15bn on El Gordo \u2013 the world's biggest lottery draw \u2013 with almost a third retained by the lottery administrator. El Gordo has been played every year since 1812.The decision came less than a week after the government gave final authorisation for the partial listing. Salgado said Loter\u00edas would be put on the market when conditions improved but she declined to give a date.The socialist government had been under pressure from the opposition conservative People's Party (PP) not to float the company.Esteban Gonz\u00e1lez Pons, a PP spokesman, saidthat his party, which is expected to win the 20 November elections, would not privatise the lottery company.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Europe", "Business", "Privatisation"], "title": "Spain postpones state lottery sell-off"},{"date": "2011-09-16T15:56:55Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain today became the latest European country to hike taxes on the wealthy, with a new asset-based tax targeting the country's richest people.Spain's socialist government hopes that the new wealth tax will raise up to \u20ac1bn in a country where growth is grinding to a halt and this year's 6% deficit target looks increasingly tough to meet.The move represents a U-turn for prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, who abolished a similar wealth tax in 2008 \u2014 just before the country plunged towards recession.\"The economic crisis makes it necessary to bring this tax back, applying principles of fairness so that those with bigger assets can be taxed and so those who have greater wealth can contribute more to getting the country out of the crisis,\" a finance ministry statement said.Spaniards with \u20ac700,000 of assets in real estate \u2013 excluding their main home \u2013 as well as in stocks and bank deposit will have to pay the new tax.\"It excludes the middle classes, who were the ones who had been largely affected by it when it was eliminated in 2008,\" the statement said.\"We estimate the number of people who will contribute at around 160,000, with annual payments of about \u20ac1.08bn if it is applied evenly across Spain,\" it added.The wealth tax will go to Spain's cash-strapped regional governments, though some of them are opposed to it.Only one of the eleven regions currently governed by the right-wing opposition People's Party (PP) has so far indicated that it will apply the tax. It remained unclear how many others, including the wealthy Madrid region, would join the PP-administered region of Extremadura.But with fierce austerity measures in place, PP regional governments will come under intense pressure to use the tax.\"In moments of hardship it is fair that those who have more should give more, just as some of the wealthiest people in Germany and France have offered to do, especially as they are less affected by measures that have been applied to pensions, salaries, lay-offs and income tax or VAT hikes,\" said Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Mollinedo, head of the tax inspectors' union.Spain's wealthy largely avoid income tax, with only some 7,000 people declaring annual taxable income above \u20ac600,000.Emilio Bot\u00edn, head of the Santander banking group and Spain's tenth wealthiest individual, said that he disagreed with the move. \"I think it's bad,\" he told journalists.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Spain raises taxes on the rich"},{"date": "2011-09-06T13:02:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Bruno Su\u00e1rez, 35, wasn't planning to leave Spain, but after three years as a consultant for a telecommunications multinational in Madrid he thought it was time for a change. He knew there were few openings in computer systems in crisis-ridden Spain and that working conditions and wages were increasingly tough, but he was prepared to accept a 20% drop in pay. \"With 10 years' experience, I realised I could only hope for \u20ac24,000 to \u20ac30,000 a year [$35,000 to $50,000], which was a big step backwards. When I left university in 2000 I was already getting \u20ac24,000,\" Su\u00e1rez\u00a0says.So he looked farther afield to London. After four interviews he was hired by a telecommunications firm in August 2010. \"They made what seemed like a reasonable offer \u2013 \u00a345,000 ($73,000) a year. I can live on that, save a bit, travel and maybe buy a house,\" Suarez says.More and more Spaniards are making similar choices. After years of sustained growth, fuelled by a property boom, and the influx of 4 million immigrants sure of finding a job, Spain has a serious hangover and foreign parts suddenly look much more attractive. \"Brazil is booming. It looks fabulously optimistic and great things seem possible,\" says Paco Conde, 37. He is about to leave his birthplace in Madrid for the first time. Currently the creative director of one of Madrid's top advertising agencies, he is moving to Rio de Janeiro on 15 January next year. A new job awaits him there, with \"much better pay\", greater responsibility and the prospect of larger campaigns. \"I knew I couldn't hope for anything better in Spain,\" he says. \"With the crisis clients are starting to cut back, which limits our scope for eye-catching international projects.\"Several of Conde's friends have left in recent months, with \"three people at work going in just a fortnight\". His brother moved to London three years ago. With no qualifications, he couldn't face the prospect of endless casual jobs and a minimum wage of \u20ac640 ($920) a month. Now, as a waiter in a gourmet restaurant in London, he keeps telling his brother it's the best move he ever made. When someone mentioned an opening in Brazil, Conde and his partner decided to take the plunge. He does not speak Portuguese, but Spanish or English will do the job. He has no friends in Rio, but he hopes to make new ones, particularly as plenty of other Spaniards have chosen the same destination. The Spanish foreign ministry is currently handling about 40 applications a day for work or study visas in Brazil.Others have set their sights on Germany. In January, Der Spiegel published an article on German plans to look for highly qualified recruits in southern Europe, prompting hundreds of young people to rush to the embassy in Madrid. Alfonso Calder\u00f3n, an architect, was already living in Berlin. \"I did an Erasmus year in Hamburg, which I enjoyed, but thought I'd leave it at that,\" he recalls. Now aged 32, he graduated in 2006 and had no difficulty finding work in Madrid. But in 2008 the construction boom ground to a halt. \"In 2010, I went seven months without work, so I decided to leave,\" he adds. He has been in Berlin for nine months now. \"Contrary to what the media say, it's not that easy to find work, particularly for architects. I must have sent out about 120 CVs and have only had three interviews.\" But in October he started an internship. \"I have to start from scratch,\" he says, \"but I'd rather be in Germany than Spain where the outlook is grim.\"Su\u00e1rez, meanwhile, has been in London for the past year. He has been promoted to the position of lead producer, heads a team of three, and has negotiated his first pay rise. \"If I'd stayed in Spain, I expect I'd be very depressed,\" he says. People are badly paid, do appalling jobs they won't leave for fear of ending up on the dole. Everyone talks about the crisis and nothing else \u2013 customers who don't pay, families gone broke and banks, in the midst of this mess, still making a profit.\"He joined about 400 London-based indignados for a demonstration outside the Spanish embassy in May. \"The most characteristic thing about Spain was once its love of fiesta,\" Suarez says. \"Now it's the indignados. We almost joined the G8 countries, now one in five people is unemployed. How come you can earn a decent living in France, Germany or the UK whereas in Spain young super-qualified graduates have to scrape by on \u20ac400 ($570) a month?\"He sees no prospect of going home. \"We certainly won't go back to Spain, at least not for 10 or 15 years. It'll take quite a while to sort out 21% unemployment.\"Spain's population grew by 700,000 a year between 2002 and 2007. With the financial crisis, net inward migration fell to 400,000 in 2008, plummeting to 47,000 in 2009 and 62,000 in 2010.This year it went into the red, with Spain losing 70,000 residents in the first six months. Even with a surplus of 43,000 births, the country's population dropped by 27,000 between January and June.\"The negative migration balance is mainly due to immigrants returning home,\" says Julio Perez, a population specialist at Spain's Scientific Research Council (CSIC). \"What surprises me is that the figure isn't higher in view of Spain's 21% rate of unemployment,\" he adds.Of the 70,000 residents lost so far this year, 63,000 were foreigners, most of whom were working in the building trade.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Spain", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "Moving overseas"], "title": "El Dorado is over for Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-29T18:50:39Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish authorities have warned the country's youth against a homemade drug that has killed two people and put another two in hospital.Two 18-year-olds died and a 20-year-old fell seriously ill after they were given a drug brewed from the leaf of the thorn apple plant at a rave in the Madrid commuter town of Getafe on 21 August.Seeds and leaves from the thorn apple, which is also known as devil's trumpet or devil's weed, are hallucinogenic and dangerous \u2013 though scientists warn that the whole plant, including its flowers, can seriously damage health.Side-effects include an increased pulse, muscular twitches, diarrhoea, convulsions, coma and death.The thorn apple comes from the same family of plants as belladonna, otherwise known as deadly nightshade.A man was released on bail on Monday to await trial on homicide charges. Spanish newspapers said he had been trying to \"create a market\" for the drug by giving it away.A fourth victim was admitted to hospital in Badajoz, western Spain, in a coma over the weekend after taking the drug. He came out of his coma on Monday. Dr Elena G\u00e1lvez of Badajoz's Infanta Cristina hospital said: \"Even though the patient is progressing, he is still fighting for his life.\"The mayor of Getafe has ordered municipal staff to destroy the plant, which grows wild, wherever they find it. Town halls elsewhere in Spain have issued similar orders.", "tags": ["Spain", "Drugs", "Europe", "World news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Homemade drug kills two teenagers in Spain"},{"date": "2011-08-26T18:43:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish politicians took a dramatic step to try to win back market confidence by agreeing on a reform of the country's constitution to introduce a cap on future deficits.The socialist party (PSOE) of outgoing prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero and the conservative opposition People's party (PP) said the cap would come into effect in 2020. The limit will be set at 0.4% and will effect all levels of Spain's highly devolved administration, including the regional governments that run health and education.The move came at the end of a month that has seen Spain's sovereign debt under severe pressure in the markets, amid fears that it might need a bailout similar to those of fellow eurozone nations Portugal, Greece or Ireland. It also came a week after Germany's Angela Merkel and France's Nicolas Sarkozy called for eurozone countries to establish legal limits on their deficits to integrate their economies. So far only Germany has such a cap.Spanish politicians claimed the measure was a step towards eurozone integration. \"August has been a month of financial instability. Investors have lost confidence in the eurozone,\" said Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the PSOE candidate for prime minister in November's general election. \"We have to win back confidence and show we are solvent.\"The PP, led by Mariano Rajoy, had been demanding such a measure for years. \"We want to be amongst the countries in the vanguard of European economic policy,\" said spokeswoman Soraya Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda.With more than 90% of deputies between them, the two parties can push through constitutional change before parliament is dissolved on 27 September.Unlike Germany, Spain will not specify the size of the deficit cap in the constitution. According to the draft, the new clause will merely say a cap must be set by either the European Union or, in its absence, the Spanish parliament. The limit could also be broken at times of recession or national crisis.Germany's constitution imposes a 0.35% cap by 2016. Spain's 0.4% limit will be set initially by a separate law.Sa\u00e9nz de Santamar\u00eda claimed the agreement would force future governments to keep debt below an EU-set limit of 60% of GDP. However, Spain's debt is expected to hit 65% of GDP this year, below the eurozone average and behind Germany, France, Britain and the US. The IMF recently estimated it would total around 75% of GDP by 2016. While the new measure is meant to calm markets, it will have no impact on Spain's current deficit.Figures released on Friday show annual GDP growth slipped to 0.7% in the second quarter, making it difficult to reach the government's predicted 1.3% for 2011.Zapatero surprised many in his party on Tuesday when he announced he and Rajoy had agreed to change the constitution. Opinion polls show the socialists trailing the PP. The socialist regional leader in Andalucia, Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gri\u00f1\u00e1n, called the change \"a grave error\". Left-wing critics claimed it would lead to cuts in social spending.Only a rebellion by socialist deputies, however, could stop the measure going through.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero"], "title": "Spain changes constitution to cap budget deficit"},{"date": "2011-07-29T09:42:47Z", "country": "spain", "content": "With markets already deeply worried about the outlook for sovereign debt on both sides of the Atlantic, they also have to contend with the ISM [manufacturing] and labour reports in the US and central bank meetings in the eurozone, UK, Japan and Australia [next week]. We still have hopes that US politicians will eventually come to some form of agreement that will prevent a default, but the loss of the AAA rating is looking probable if a long term austerity package is not approved. The deadline the politicians are working to is 2 August for the debt ceiling to be breached. However, in reality there is likely to be a buffer that will take us into the following week given stronger than anticipated tax revenues.With the storm clouds which had gathered over Greece abating, if not disappearing, Moody's has now turned its attention to Spain. And unsurprisingly, it doesn't like what it sees. Spain's banking sector remains in turmoil, unemployment is sky high, and its debt is out of control.Prime Minister Zapatero is perenially upbeat, but the fact is he has almost no way of creating growth. Even with its second bailout, Greece is almost certain to default. When, not if, this happens, the pressure will move to the eurozone's other weak peripheral economies. That pressure will centre on the biggest peripheral - Spain. With its credit rating slipping further, it will struggle to borrow enough to keep itself afloat and could easily become the next Greece.The euro has already fallen today in response, but you might be forgiven for not noticing. With the UK's poor GDP figures this week and the ongoing paralysis over the US debt ceiling, sterling, the euro and the dollar all seem to be locked in a race to the bottom.I am no longer sure if this is reality or I am watching a Hollywood summer blockbuster. With no resolution with regard to the US debt ceiling and with continuing contagion in the European government debt market it is clearly time for the safe haven trade.While it's debatable whether Spain could be described as facing similar challenges to Greece just yet, it's worth remembering that the yield on its 10-year bond has risen by just under 60bps since the start of the month. Lending is all about confidence and as we have seen with Greece, Ireland and Portugal once yields start to creep higher it doesn't take long for confidence to seep away making it more difficult for the borrower to fund.US futures are sharply down on the back of the failure of the Boehner bill re the debt ceiling not even being voted on because of a lack of support. No doubt heads will be knocked together over the weekend and a compromise will be reached in order to avoid a default. That said maybe I am being too optimistic because I am approaching the situation from a logical standpoint whereas a lot of the people actually involved might be approaching it from a political or at least a non-rationale viewpoint. Whilst it is not going to happen wouldn't right now be a great time for the EU to announce common European bonds in order to alleviate pressure on the troubled sovereigns and also provide the market with an alternative to Treasuries.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Spain", "World news", "Market turmoil"], "title": "Spain downgrade threat: what the experts say"},{"date": "2011-08-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Melanie Martin is a chatty 11 year old with an annoying brother and two clever parents. The whole family are going on a trip to Spain. Melanie's mum's old boyfriend Antonio is there to greet everyone in Spain. Antonio has a son called Miguel (let's just say Melanie has an interest in him!). Throughout the trip Melanie keeps a diary of her trip so far.Carol Weston has some cool characters. My favourite character was Melanie she is made really realistic by Carol by the way she speaks, her attitude and personality. I think you will enjoy this book if you are going to go to Spain in the summer or are 11 yourself or as just an easy read. Overall it was an alright book. For mostly girls but I think a boy could read the book too. Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Melanie Martin, With Love From Spain by Carol Weston - review"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-04T00:04:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There is lunchtime bingo at the Judge's Chambers, beef-burgers at Sunny Jim's. There are piles of the Daily Mail, Sun and Heat magazine for sale at the News Box and the Bankinter is wooing prospective depositors with the come-on: \"It's good when a bank speaks the same language as you.\" This is Orihuela Costa, the town with the largest percentage of British people anywhere in the world outside the United Kingdom.In the town hall office, flanked by a framed photograph of King Juan Carlos and the flags of Spain and the European Union, sits Bob Houliston, the quietly spoken Geordie whose surprise election this May allowed the party which he helped to form wrest power from the mighty Partido Popular, which had ruled the roost on this stretch of Spain's Costa Blanca since the end of the Franco era.\"Thirty years ago there were just a few trees here,\" says Houliston, who spent 10 years in the diplomatic service and a further three decades in the European Commission before retiring here with his Spanish wife, Isabel. \"Now there are 30,000 people living here. It's been a very radical change.\"Benidorm, further north along the coast, may be the most famously transformed fishing village in the world, but it is mainly a\u00a0tourist destination, while Orihuela Costa caters for those seeking, in a phrase used unselfconsciously by local estate agents, to \"live the dream\".An estimated one million Britons now live for all or part of the year in Spain. It is one of the most remarkable European migrations of the last half century. Large-scale population shifts are normally driven by economic factors, whether desperate necessity or a desire for the \"better life\", but the great British exodus to Spain had different engines. An escape from gloomy old Britain to a less frenzied existence in the sun.Fifty years ago, such escape routes were available only to well-off Britons, who could buy a villa in the Bahamas or the C\u00f4te d'Azur or Tuscany. Cheap flights, a strong pound and a British property market which created almost instant wealth made a fantasy realisable for hundreds of thousands of people of more modest means. Houses in Spain couldn't be built fast enough. Great swathes of the coast and countryside became clustered with urbanisations, instant housing estates thrown up to cater to what seemed to be an endless stream of Britons, Germans and other northern Europeans now able to live the kind of life abroad of which their parents could only have dreamed. Developers, estate agents, builders, had never had it so good.Three years ago came la crisis \u2013 the economic crash \u2013 and with it the collapse of the property market. Now estimates of the number of empty, unsold properties in Spain vary between 700,000 and 1.5m. Abandoned, half-finished, ghostly urbanisations abound. Ten years ago, an expat who wanted to return to Britain could easily sell their Spanish property. No longer.Last week, the Office for National Statistics announced that emigration from Britain last year was at its lowest since 2001, a potent sign of the end of the great British exodus to Spain. In October this year, the National Institute for Statistics in Spain reported that, for the first time in a decade, the number of immigrants leaving the country outnumbered those coming in. Those departing may be mainly Latin Americans, eastern Europeans and a number of Britons thrown out of work by the collapse of the construction industry, and la crisis has brought to a head many of the unspoken issues that the great British immigration \u2013 \"colonisation\", as some Spaniards see it \u2013 had left unspoken. Are the British there to stay or are they semi-detached? What la crisis has done is to force expats to decide: do we head home to grey, unwelcoming Britain or do we remain, either as an active, integrated part of Spanish life or as unwilling strangers, as aloof and distant as in the old days of empire?Around half of Orihuela Costa's 30,000 inhabitants are British, far outnumbering other expats and the Spanish themselves, who make up only about 10% of the population. Many of the expats voted in the local elections in May for Claro (Cerca del Pueblo, Limpio, Activo, Reformista Orihuelo Costa), the party, formed in 2006, which Houliston represents. The key word there is limpio, the Spanish for \"clean\", which is understood by voters to mean that the party aimed to end the endemic bribery that has defaced Spanish politics on the coast and given such grief to unwary expats who bought illegally built homes. Figures from all the main parties have been involved, although it is the Partido Popular (PP), which this month takes over as the national government, that has harboured some of the most spectacularly corrupt operators, happy to take bribes to facilitate building on agricultural land or without proper planning permission.\"In the past, it hasn't suited the powers that be to have a big expat population on the coast actively engaged and voting,\" says Houliston. \"It was easy for them to say: here's this big population who have come for the sun; well they've got the sun and that's all they need. There was a sense of injustice and a\u00a0feeling that the only way to get things done was with a new party. The success of Claro was to create a political consensus on the coast. It was a big surprise to the PP when we won.\"The intention, he said, was not to create a Little Britain party but one that reflected the local population, so there are Spanish and German members, and one of his coalition partners is a German Green; political meetings are held in three languages. For Houliston, his election and the increasing political involvement of Britons is a hopeful sign against a backdrop when traditionally expats did not bother involving themselves. \"This is all part of Europe,\" he says. \"For me, that's the fascinating thing. Think global, act local, as they say.\"A couple of hours north in Xalon, there's a different tale to be told. While Houliston and others like him may be hoping to change the way expats relate to their lives in Spain, others are calling it a day and heading home. In Xalon, there's the familiar evidence of a sizeable expat population: a hairdressers called The Cuts, Harry Stafford's fish and chip shop and Bar 23 offering roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and a chance to hear \"JJ Jones as Neil Diamond\". This has been home to Claire Hibberd, who moved from Chesterfield in Derbyshire, but is in the process of packing up, the office of the real estate firm she ran now full of boxes and well-wishers popping in to say goodbye.\"I've had enough,\" she says. \"I'm sick and tired.\" She is heading back in the wake of a \"malicious and slanderous\" campaign which has accused her of running a dodgy business and not paying her taxes. Crude anonymous leaflets about her have been stuffed in hundreds of local letter boxes. She is pretty sure who is behind it \u2013 another expat, \"with balls of steel\" \u2013 and she is in the process of making a denuncia (official complaint) about him to the local police, but her bags are packed. Such inter-expat feuds are not uncommon. She will miss Spain, which she made her home after her parents \u2013 her mother, Elaine, is a former town clerk of Belper \u2013 moved there. Her story \u2013 arriving full of enthusiasm but departing disillusioned \u2013 is not atypical.\"My parents wanted to live abroad,\" says Hibberd. \"They had wanted to go to France, but the Spanish tend to accept you more. I've met some people here who've reinvented themselves on the plane on the way out \u2013 they've suddenly become builders or skilled technicians when they were bin-men back in England. Here, British people tend to stick with other British people and you end up in a clique \u2013 but that's the worst thing you can do. I have had people say that they meet hostility because they are English, but that tends to be people who don't integrate. And people don't realise that things are not cheaper here,\" she says. \"Unless you're an alcoholic smoker,\" her partner, Darren, chips in with a smile. Among her clients are others who had hoped to make a go of it, she said, but have called in to say they can no longer pay the rent and are returning to England.But if there are committed stayers and unhappy goers, there is a third category: those who would like to return to the UK but cannot do so.Jo Hamilton, a local government worker from Manchester, bored by her job, decided in 2006 that she and her partner would \"live the dream\" in a place called Los Altos, not far from Orihuela Costa. Housing rip-offs, burglaries, unhelpful police, isolation, problems with other expats and the end of her relationship made it a hellish experience.\"Deep down I was becoming convinced that Spain was full of expats putting on a brave face and accepting the folly of their decision\u2026 with the usual British stiff upper lip,\" she writes in her cautionary tale, A Place in the Currant Bun. \"There is no getting away from the fact that there are many unhappy people stuck in Spain who would love to go home but who are unable to owing to lack of available finances. There must be millions of euros tied up in unloved and unwanted Spanish properties.\"Paul Rodwell, a tall, genial, multilingual young man, whose previous career was as a hotelier in Chile, Morocco and France ( you can imagine him effortlessly soothing newly arrived guests) is the British consul in Alicante, one of the world's busiest consulates. Almost a third of all Britons in Spain live in this region and last year the consulate dealt with 507 detentions (number one in the world) and helped 460 bereaved families (number two). He has noticed how the economic crisis has affected some expats.\"A lot of our people here are pensioners and they were faced, three or four years ago, with the fall in the value of the pound, so they saw the reduction of their pensions by 20 to 30%,\" says Rodwell, sitting in his office in a square of palm trees and coffee bars not too far from the seafront. The exact number of Britons in Spain is unclear since some people live only part of the year there and many full-timers have not registered with the padron \u2013 the municipal register which allows foreigners to vote and stand in local elections. Rodwell is quite evangelical about getting people on the padron, both as a way of them integrating better and to give the Spanish authorities a more accurate picture of how many there are.\"There is no statistical evidence of people returning home,\" says Rodwell, who has just been taking part in a Channel 4 documentary about life at the consulate, and could thus be a television star when it is broadcast in the spring. \"There have been incidences of people handing over the keys to the house to the bank, which is often the worst thing you can do as they can come after you. Broadly speaking, the Brits are seen as a pretty good bunch, and they contribute a\u00a0lot to the economy. The vast majority of them are enjoying life. People do really pursue the dream and it's admirable that they have that get up and go, but if they don't do their homework, it can be a nightmare. It's not easy at 40 or 50 to learn Spanish and it's even harder at 60 or 70.\"One of his jobs is trying to help people who have been involved in housing scams or disasters, which are legion. \"It has a big impact, a horrific situation for some people. There are heart attacks from the stress and we have had some people who are literally homeless.\" A third of the expat arrests he has to deal with are for domestic violence. \"The incidence has increased, which could be a manifestation that people are under stress at home perhaps, with the money not coming in.\" Amazingly, around a third of those arrested assumed that they would be dealt with by British rather than Spanish law.One of the problems, he says, is that some expats can drift into life in Spain without thinking too much about it. \"People talk about 'emigrating' to Australia or Canada, but they sometimes don't see moving to Spain in quite the same way. They don't realise that they are cutting ties and they will have to deal with insurance and mortgages and money in a foreign language. They think it will all be eating al fresco and fresh fish, but that can wear off pretty quickly.\"Spain is in the midst of its own economic catastrophe and its new government will soon be delivering harsh austerity measures to a\u00a0country already with 20% unemployment. Whether Britons stay or go is the least of their concerns. But, for expats who came for the sun, those chill economic winds mean that the crunch has come. Those expats who are not checking out return flights tend to fall into two categories: those who have come as traditional migrants, young families seeking a different life and \u2013 the majority \u2013 those who retired to the sun. In the first category are Emma and Alan Lawton and their 13-year-old daughter, Molly, from St Helens, who are now in their sixth year in Spain. They have their own house in Javea and run a successful excavation and demolition business.\"This is home now,\" says Emma, sitting outside their home beside the swimming pool and the orange tree. \"The quality of life is better. We are together more as a family and we have a wider variety of friends \u2013 Spanish, German, Swiss, all nationalities. We drink in local Spanish bars, although the first time we went in it was like a scene from a western \u2013 silence, everyone looking round. We were a bit of a novelty, trying to crack a market that was local. We got a frosty reception at first and we have had days when we thought about packing it in, but it's never been more than days and, to be honest, I've had more days like that in England. Here, it is more relaxed, it's no pasa nada [don't worry], but it's hard work and it's not all sunbathing and going out drinking.\"She says that the expats who have problems were ones who make little effort. \"If you go into a builder's merchants and the first thing you say is, 'Do you speak English?' then the barriers go up. Some people arrive with rose-tinted glasses and maybe not much Spanish apart from 'ola' and 'por favor',\" says Emma, who also spoke no Spanish when she arrived but now takes part in a project called hablemos, run by the local town hall, to help people integrate better; groups of around 15 or 16 people, half Spanish-, half English-speaking meet weekly to talk in each other's languages.Alan, who has just been accepted as a local volunteer bombero (firefighter), is also happy they made the jump. \"I've never broken a mobile phone out here and in England it would be one a month thrown at the wall,\" he says, referring to how stressful he found life back home. \"But the English have a bad name here. You get people who move out here and put their brains in storage at Alicante airport. They buy a Mercedes convertible and go out five or six nights a week, and a year later the bank has got their house and they've gone back to Britain. And we know of some people who've taken money for a\u00a0job and then gone back to England without doing it. It's a totally different way of life from England \u2013 you don't look at the local news on TV and think, 'Flipping heck, we'd better put some extra locks on the doors.'\"So are they here for the long haul?\"Whether we stay for ever is a difficult question,\" says Emma. \"If the economy improves we could be here for ever. What annoys me about the coverage of Spain in the British media \u2013 all those 'homes from hell' \u2013 is that it's not just in Spain people have these problems, it's happening everywhere.\"While Emma and Alan represent the new wave of expat, George and Pauline Stevenson are part of the large number of retired Britons on the Costas. George was the Labour MP for Stoke-on-Trent until 2005 and previously the MEP for Staffordshire East. At their home in Benitachell, there is Antony Beevor's history of the Spanish civil war on the table and photos at hand of the Stevensons with Barbara Castle and Michael Foot. When George retired from politics, they decided that they wanted, in Pauline's words, \"a new beginning\" in Spain. \"We didn't want to descend into our dotage,\" says George. \"We wanted to go to a country we had never lived in. When we moved here in 2005, the exchange rate was \u20ac1.70 to the \u00a31 and since then it's been down below \u20ac1.10. The first bombshell to hit the expats, many of whom depend on their pensions, was a damn near 30% reduction in the value of their pound. For people who arrived before that \u2013 they thought it would go on like that for ever.\"\"There are two kinds of expats,\" says Pauline, \"and there is a very clear distinction between them: there are the retired ones \u2013 they'd been teachers or local government workers, doctors \u2013 and they had come intending to stay because they'd had holidays here and liked it. But they also keep a place in the UK so that they can use the health service \u2013 get their prescription pills and have their knee done. And there are the others. They come to work and they might have got a job and it went pear-shaped. They're like the birds in the summer \u2013 they fly off and then come back again. But I think the Spanish are wonderful. I shall die here.\"There is no shortage, however, of the disgruntled Englishman abroad. The Daily Mail, that barometer of British peevishness, is the best-selling paper on the Spanish coast. Many of the seven expat English-language weekly newspapers carry regular baleful columns about the hellishness of life in \"multicultural, politically correct, health-and-safety\" Britain, complete with apocryphal stories of queue-jumping asylum-seekers, while simultaneously reminding readers of the many perils of being an expat. Some of the five expat radio stations carry the same gloomy conversations.The Euro Weekly News's resident columnist, Leapy Lee, who had a hit record with \"Little Arrows\" in 1968 but whose career took a tumble after he was jailed over a fracas involving a bloody pub brawl in the company of the late Alan Lake, husband of Diana Dors, is one example. In October, Leapy, who lives in Mallorca, told his readers that the BNP is now \"the only party spouting a bit of common sense\". Not a few expats talk, completely without irony, of how Britain has been ruined by immigrants who don't bother to learn the language.The Costa boom is over. The empty houses and urbanisations carry ever-reducing price-tags. For those expats battered by the economic storms when all they sought was a little quiet sun the choices are stark: stay and make the best of it \u2013 al-fresco eating and fresh fish included \u2013 or head home to an uncertain future in a land that now looks rather less kindly on new arrivals.", "tags": ["Spain", "Property", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Money", "Expat finance"], "title": "Economic crisis: The pain in Spain"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-04T00:04:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There is lunchtime bingo at the Judge's Chambers, beef-burgers at Sunny Jim's. There are piles of the Daily Mail, Sun and Heat magazine for sale at the News Box and the Bankinter is wooing prospective depositors with the come-on: \"It's good when a bank speaks the same language as you.\" This is Orihuela Costa, the town with the largest percentage of British people anywhere in the world outside the United Kingdom.In the town hall office, flanked by a framed photograph of King Juan Carlos and the flags of Spain and the European Union, sits Bob Houliston, the quietly spoken Geordie whose surprise election this May allowed the party which he helped to form wrest power from the mighty Partido Popular, which had ruled the roost on this stretch of Spain's Costa Blanca since the end of the Franco era.\"Thirty years ago there were just a few trees here,\" says Houliston, who spent 10 years in the diplomatic service and a further three decades in the European Commission before retiring here with his Spanish wife, Isabel. \"Now there are 30,000 people living here. It's been a very radical change.\"Benidorm, further north along the coast, may be the most famously transformed fishing village in the world, but it is mainly a\u00a0tourist destination, while Orihuela Costa caters for those seeking, in a phrase used unselfconsciously by local estate agents, to \"live the dream\".An estimated one million Britons now live for all or part of the year in Spain. It is one of the most remarkable European migrations of the last half century. Large-scale population shifts are normally driven by economic factors, whether desperate necessity or a desire for the \"better life\", but the great British exodus to Spain had different engines. An escape from gloomy old Britain to a less frenzied existence in the sun.Fifty years ago, such escape routes were available only to well-off Britons, who could buy a villa in the Bahamas or the C\u00f4te d'Azur or Tuscany. Cheap flights, a strong pound and a British property market which created almost instant wealth made a fantasy realisable for hundreds of thousands of people of more modest means. Houses in Spain couldn't be built fast enough. Great swathes of the coast and countryside became clustered with urbanisations, instant housing estates thrown up to cater to what seemed to be an endless stream of Britons, Germans and other northern Europeans now able to live the kind of life abroad of which their parents could only have dreamed. Developers, estate agents, builders, had never had it so good.Three years ago came la crisis \u2013 the economic crash \u2013 and with it the collapse of the property market. Now estimates of the number of empty, unsold properties in Spain vary between 700,000 and 1.5m. Abandoned, half-finished, ghostly urbanisations abound. Ten years ago, an expat who wanted to return to Britain could easily sell their Spanish property. No longer.Last week, the Office for National Statistics announced that emigration from Britain last year was at its lowest since 2001, a potent sign of the end of the great British exodus to Spain. In October this year, the National Institute for Statistics in Spain reported that, for the first time in a decade, the number of immigrants leaving the country outnumbered those coming in. Those departing may be mainly Latin Americans, eastern Europeans and a number of Britons thrown out of work by the collapse of the construction industry, and la crisis has brought to a head many of the unspoken issues that the great British immigration \u2013 \"colonisation\", as some Spaniards see it \u2013 had left unspoken. Are the British there to stay or are they semi-detached? What la crisis has done is to force expats to decide: do we head home to grey, unwelcoming Britain or do we remain, either as an active, integrated part of Spanish life or as unwilling strangers, as aloof and distant as in the old days of empire?Around half of Orihuela Costa's 30,000 inhabitants are British, far outnumbering other expats and the Spanish themselves, who make up only about 10% of the population. Many of the expats voted in the local elections in May for Claro (Cerca del Pueblo, Limpio, Activo, Reformista Orihuelo Costa), the party, formed in 2006, which Houliston represents. The key word there is limpio, the Spanish for \"clean\", which is understood by voters to mean that the party aimed to end the endemic bribery that has defaced Spanish politics on the coast and given such grief to unwary expats who bought illegally built homes. Figures from all the main parties have been involved, although it is the Partido Popular (PP), which this month takes over as the national government, that has harboured some of the most spectacularly corrupt operators, happy to take bribes to facilitate building on agricultural land or without proper planning permission.\"In the past, it hasn't suited the powers that be to have a big expat population on the coast actively engaged and voting,\" says Houliston. \"It was easy for them to say: here's this big population who have come for the sun; well they've got the sun and that's all they need. There was a sense of injustice and a\u00a0feeling that the only way to get things done was with a new party. The success of Claro was to create a political consensus on the coast. It was a big surprise to the PP when we won.\"The intention, he said, was not to create a Little Britain party but one that reflected the local population, so there are Spanish and German members, and one of his coalition partners is a German Green; political meetings are held in three languages. For Houliston, his election and the increasing political involvement of Britons is a hopeful sign against a backdrop when traditionally expats did not bother involving themselves. \"This is all part of Europe,\" he says. \"For me, that's the fascinating thing. Think global, act local, as they say.\"A couple of hours north in Xalon, there's a different tale to be told. While Houliston and others like him may be hoping to change the way expats relate to their lives in Spain, others are calling it a day and heading home. In Xalon, there's the familiar evidence of a sizeable expat population: a hairdressers called The Cuts, Harry Stafford's fish and chip shop and Bar 23 offering roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and a chance to hear \"JJ Jones as Neil Diamond\". This has been home to Claire Hibberd, who moved from Chesterfield in Derbyshire, but is in the process of packing up, the office of the real estate firm she ran now full of boxes and well-wishers popping in to say goodbye.\"I've had enough,\" she says. \"I'm sick and tired.\" She is heading back in the wake of a \"malicious and slanderous\" campaign which has accused her of running a dodgy business and not paying her taxes. Crude anonymous leaflets about her have been stuffed in hundreds of local letter boxes. She is pretty sure who is behind it \u2013 another expat, \"with balls of steel\" \u2013 and she is in the process of making a denuncia (official complaint) about him to the local police, but her bags are packed. Such inter-expat feuds are not uncommon. She will miss Spain, which she made her home after her parents \u2013 her mother, Elaine, is a former town clerk of Belper \u2013 moved there. Her story \u2013 arriving full of enthusiasm but departing disillusioned \u2013 is not atypical.\"My parents wanted to live abroad,\" says Hibberd. \"They had wanted to go to France, but the Spanish tend to accept you more. I've met some people here who've reinvented themselves on the plane on the way out \u2013 they've suddenly become builders or skilled technicians when they were bin-men back in England. Here, British people tend to stick with other British people and you end up in a clique \u2013 but that's the worst thing you can do. I have had people say that they meet hostility because they are English, but that tends to be people who don't integrate. And people don't realise that things are not cheaper here,\" she says. \"Unless you're an alcoholic smoker,\" her partner, Darren, chips in with a smile. Among her clients are others who had hoped to make a go of it, she said, but have called in to say they can no longer pay the rent and are returning to England.But if there are committed stayers and unhappy goers, there is a third category: those who would like to return to the UK but cannot do so.Jo Hamilton, a local government worker from Manchester, bored by her job, decided in 2006 that she and her partner would \"live the dream\" in a place called Los Altos, not far from Orihuela Costa. Housing rip-offs, burglaries, unhelpful police, isolation, problems with other expats and the end of her relationship made it a hellish experience.\"Deep down I was becoming convinced that Spain was full of expats putting on a brave face and accepting the folly of their decision\u2026 with the usual British stiff upper lip,\" she writes in her cautionary tale, A Place in the Currant Bun. \"There is no getting away from the fact that there are many unhappy people stuck in Spain who would love to go home but who are unable to owing to lack of available finances. There must be millions of euros tied up in unloved and unwanted Spanish properties.\"Paul Rodwell, a tall, genial, multilingual young man, whose previous career was as a hotelier in Chile, Morocco and France ( you can imagine him effortlessly soothing newly arrived guests) is the British consul in Alicante, one of the world's busiest consulates. Almost a third of all Britons in Spain live in this region and last year the consulate dealt with 507 detentions (number one in the world) and helped 460 bereaved families (number two). He has noticed how the economic crisis has affected some expats.\"A lot of our people here are pensioners and they were faced, three or four years ago, with the fall in the value of the pound, so they saw the reduction of their pensions by 20 to 30%,\" says Rodwell, sitting in his office in a square of palm trees and coffee bars not too far from the seafront. The exact number of Britons in Spain is unclear since some people live only part of the year there and many full-timers have not registered with the padron \u2013 the municipal register which allows foreigners to vote and stand in local elections. Rodwell is quite evangelical about getting people on the padron, both as a way of them integrating better and to give the Spanish authorities a more accurate picture of how many there are.\"There is no statistical evidence of people returning home,\" says Rodwell, who has just been taking part in a Channel 4 documentary about life at the consulate, and could thus be a television star when it is broadcast in the spring. \"There have been incidences of people handing over the keys to the house to the bank, which is often the worst thing you can do as they can come after you. Broadly speaking, the Brits are seen as a pretty good bunch, and they contribute a\u00a0lot to the economy. The vast majority of them are enjoying life. People do really pursue the dream and it's admirable that they have that get up and go, but if they don't do their homework, it can be a nightmare. It's not easy at 40 or 50 to learn Spanish and it's even harder at 60 or 70.\"One of his jobs is trying to help people who have been involved in housing scams or disasters, which are legion. \"It has a big impact, a horrific situation for some people. There are heart attacks from the stress and we have had some people who are literally homeless.\" A third of the expat arrests he has to deal with are for domestic violence. \"The incidence has increased, which could be a manifestation that people are under stress at home perhaps, with the money not coming in.\" Amazingly, around a third of those arrested assumed that they would be dealt with by British rather than Spanish law.One of the problems, he says, is that some expats can drift into life in Spain without thinking too much about it. \"People talk about 'emigrating' to Australia or Canada, but they sometimes don't see moving to Spain in quite the same way. They don't realise that they are cutting ties and they will have to deal with insurance and mortgages and money in a foreign language. They think it will all be eating al fresco and fresh fish, but that can wear off pretty quickly.\"Spain is in the midst of its own economic catastrophe and its new government will soon be delivering harsh austerity measures to a\u00a0country already with 20% unemployment. Whether Britons stay or go is the least of their concerns. But, for expats who came for the sun, those chill economic winds mean that the crunch has come. Those expats who are not checking out return flights tend to fall into two categories: those who have come as traditional migrants, young families seeking a different life and \u2013 the majority \u2013 those who retired to the sun. In the first category are Emma and Alan Lawton and their 13-year-old daughter, Molly, from St Helens, who are now in their sixth year in Spain. They have their own house in Javea and run a successful excavation and demolition business.\"This is home now,\" says Emma, sitting outside their home beside the swimming pool and the orange tree. \"The quality of life is better. We are together more as a family and we have a wider variety of friends \u2013 Spanish, German, Swiss, all nationalities. We drink in local Spanish bars, although the first time we went in it was like a scene from a western \u2013 silence, everyone looking round. We were a bit of a novelty, trying to crack a market that was local. We got a frosty reception at first and we have had days when we thought about packing it in, but it's never been more than days and, to be honest, I've had more days like that in England. Here, it is more relaxed, it's no pasa nada [don't worry], but it's hard work and it's not all sunbathing and going out drinking.\"She says that the expats who have problems were ones who make little effort. \"If you go into a builder's merchants and the first thing you say is, 'Do you speak English?' then the barriers go up. Some people arrive with rose-tinted glasses and maybe not much Spanish apart from 'ola' and 'por favor',\" says Emma, who also spoke no Spanish when she arrived but now takes part in a project called hablemos, run by the local town hall, to help people integrate better; groups of around 15 or 16 people, half Spanish-, half English-speaking meet weekly to talk in each other's languages.Alan, who has just been accepted as a local volunteer bombero (firefighter), is also happy they made the jump. \"I've never broken a mobile phone out here and in England it would be one a month thrown at the wall,\" he says, referring to how stressful he found life back home. \"But the English have a bad name here. You get people who move out here and put their brains in storage at Alicante airport. They buy a Mercedes convertible and go out five or six nights a week, and a year later the bank has got their house and they've gone back to Britain. And we know of some people who've taken money for a\u00a0job and then gone back to England without doing it. It's a totally different way of life from England \u2013 you don't look at the local news on TV and think, 'Flipping heck, we'd better put some extra locks on the doors.'\"So are they here for the long haul?\"Whether we stay for ever is a difficult question,\" says Emma. \"If the economy improves we could be here for ever. What annoys me about the coverage of Spain in the British media \u2013 all those 'homes from hell' \u2013 is that it's not just in Spain people have these problems, it's happening everywhere.\"While Emma and Alan represent the new wave of expat, George and Pauline Stevenson are part of the large number of retired Britons on the Costas. George was the Labour MP for Stoke-on-Trent until 2005 and previously the MEP for Staffordshire East. At their home in Benitachell, there is Antony Beevor's history of the Spanish civil war on the table and photos at hand of the Stevensons with Barbara Castle and Michael Foot. When George retired from politics, they decided that they wanted, in Pauline's words, \"a new beginning\" in Spain. \"We didn't want to descend into our dotage,\" says George. \"We wanted to go to a country we had never lived in. When we moved here in 2005, the exchange rate was \u20ac1.70 to the \u00a31 and since then it's been down below \u20ac1.10. The first bombshell to hit the expats, many of whom depend on their pensions, was a damn near 30% reduction in the value of their pound. For people who arrived before that \u2013 they thought it would go on like that for ever.\"\"There are two kinds of expats,\" says Pauline, \"and there is a very clear distinction between them: there are the retired ones \u2013 they'd been teachers or local government workers, doctors \u2013 and they had come intending to stay because they'd had holidays here and liked it. But they also keep a place in the UK so that they can use the health service \u2013 get their prescription pills and have their knee done. And there are the others. They come to work and they might have got a job and it went pear-shaped. They're like the birds in the summer \u2013 they fly off and then come back again. But I think the Spanish are wonderful. I shall die here.\"There is no shortage, however, of the disgruntled Englishman abroad. The Daily Mail, that barometer of British peevishness, is the best-selling paper on the Spanish coast. Many of the seven expat English-language weekly newspapers carry regular baleful columns about the hellishness of life in \"multicultural, politically correct, health-and-safety\" Britain, complete with apocryphal stories of queue-jumping asylum-seekers, while simultaneously reminding readers of the many perils of being an expat. Some of the five expat radio stations carry the same gloomy conversations.The Euro Weekly News's resident columnist, Leapy Lee, who had a hit record with \"Little Arrows\" in 1968 but whose career took a tumble after he was jailed over a fracas involving a bloody pub brawl in the company of the late Alan Lake, husband of Diana Dors, is one example. In October, Leapy, who lives in Mallorca, told his readers that the BNP is now \"the only party spouting a bit of common sense\". Not a few expats talk, completely without irony, of how Britain has been ruined by immigrants who don't bother to learn the language.The Costa boom is over. The empty houses and urbanisations carry ever-reducing price-tags. For those expats battered by the economic storms when all they sought was a little quiet sun the choices are stark: stay and make the best of it \u2013 al-fresco eating and fresh fish included \u2013 or head home to an uncertain future in a land that now looks rather less kindly on new arrivals.", "tags": ["Spain", "Property", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Money", "Expat finance"], "title": "Economic crisis: The pain in Spain"},{"date": "2011-10-10T17:15:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alarm bells are being rung over Spain's ability to hit its public deficit target this year without taking further dramatic steps to raise extra income or cut spending.Figures released last week by the national statistics institute (INE) show that the deficit level remained virtually unchanged during the first half of this year, according to one of the country's leading analysts.Angel Laborda, of the savings banks federation Funcas, said the figures on the overall borrowing needs of Spain's public administration meant the chances of bringing the deficit down from 9% to 6% this year were slim.The deficit could now head for between 7.5 and 8%of GDP \u2013 well off the target agreed by the socialist government of prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and the European Union and much worse than previous analysts' estimates.\"Most of the year has already gone so I think it is impossible to meet 6%,\" Laborda said. \"I'd say it will be closer to 8%.\"He blamed the problem on the regional governments, who account for a third of public spending. Many had only seriously begun to cut spending after May elections, he said. Lower-than-expected growth was also a handicap.Separate figures show that central government has brought down its part of the deficit, suggesting that regional governments may have actually grown their deficits during the first half of the year, he said.The Zapatero government has staked its credibility in the markets on hitting deficit targets. The fact that it met last year's target, together with Spain's relatively low overall national debt, helps to explain why bond yields have been lower than neighbouring Italy's.Finance minister Elena Salgado has repeatedly vowed to meet this year's 6% target. The socialist government, which is set to be replaced by the conservative People's Party (PP) at a general election on 20 November, has said it will introduce new measures if it has to.\"Our objective of a 6% deficit at year's end will not be given up on,\" a finance ministry spokesman reaffirmed. \"We have said many times that we will do whatever it takes to meet that.\"The PP has also pledged to meet deficit targets. The spokesman blamed a change in INE's metholodogy for Laborda's calculations. Laborda denied that there was a problem, saying INE had also presented its data on previous years using the new methodology.The average predicted deficit figure from 18 of Spain's top analysts prior to last week's figures was 6.5% for 2011.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Business", "European banks", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Euro", "Spain", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Spain unlikely to meet deficit target"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-04T00:04:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There is lunchtime bingo at the Judge's Chambers, beef-burgers at Sunny Jim's. There are piles of the Daily Mail, Sun and Heat magazine for sale at the News Box and the Bankinter is wooing prospective depositors with the come-on: \"It's good when a bank speaks the same language as you.\" This is Orihuela Costa, the town with the largest percentage of British people anywhere in the world outside the United Kingdom.In the town hall office, flanked by a framed photograph of King Juan Carlos and the flags of Spain and the European Union, sits Bob Houliston, the quietly spoken Geordie whose surprise election this May allowed the party which he helped to form wrest power from the mighty Partido Popular, which had ruled the roost on this stretch of Spain's Costa Blanca since the end of the Franco era.\"Thirty years ago there were just a few trees here,\" says Houliston, who spent 10 years in the diplomatic service and a further three decades in the European Commission before retiring here with his Spanish wife, Isabel. \"Now there are 30,000 people living here. It's been a very radical change.\"Benidorm, further north along the coast, may be the most famously transformed fishing village in the world, but it is mainly a\u00a0tourist destination, while Orihuela Costa caters for those seeking, in a phrase used unselfconsciously by local estate agents, to \"live the dream\".An estimated one million Britons now live for all or part of the year in Spain. It is one of the most remarkable European migrations of the last half century. Large-scale population shifts are normally driven by economic factors, whether desperate necessity or a desire for the \"better life\", but the great British exodus to Spain had different engines. An escape from gloomy old Britain to a less frenzied existence in the sun.Fifty years ago, such escape routes were available only to well-off Britons, who could buy a villa in the Bahamas or the C\u00f4te d'Azur or Tuscany. Cheap flights, a strong pound and a British property market which created almost instant wealth made a fantasy realisable for hundreds of thousands of people of more modest means. Houses in Spain couldn't be built fast enough. Great swathes of the coast and countryside became clustered with urbanisations, instant housing estates thrown up to cater to what seemed to be an endless stream of Britons, Germans and other northern Europeans now able to live the kind of life abroad of which their parents could only have dreamed. Developers, estate agents, builders, had never had it so good.Three years ago came la crisis \u2013 the economic crash \u2013 and with it the collapse of the property market. Now estimates of the number of empty, unsold properties in Spain vary between 700,000 and 1.5m. Abandoned, half-finished, ghostly urbanisations abound. Ten years ago, an expat who wanted to return to Britain could easily sell their Spanish property. No longer.Last week, the Office for National Statistics announced that emigration from Britain last year was at its lowest since 2001, a potent sign of the end of the great British exodus to Spain. In October this year, the National Institute for Statistics in Spain reported that, for the first time in a decade, the number of immigrants leaving the country outnumbered those coming in. Those departing may be mainly Latin Americans, eastern Europeans and a number of Britons thrown out of work by the collapse of the construction industry, and la crisis has brought to a head many of the unspoken issues that the great British immigration \u2013 \"colonisation\", as some Spaniards see it \u2013 had left unspoken. Are the British there to stay or are they semi-detached? What la crisis has done is to force expats to decide: do we head home to grey, unwelcoming Britain or do we remain, either as an active, integrated part of Spanish life or as unwilling strangers, as aloof and distant as in the old days of empire?Around half of Orihuela Costa's 30,000 inhabitants are British, far outnumbering other expats and the Spanish themselves, who make up only about 10% of the population. Many of the expats voted in the local elections in May for Claro (Cerca del Pueblo, Limpio, Activo, Reformista Orihuelo Costa), the party, formed in 2006, which Houliston represents. The key word there is limpio, the Spanish for \"clean\", which is understood by voters to mean that the party aimed to end the endemic bribery that has defaced Spanish politics on the coast and given such grief to unwary expats who bought illegally built homes. Figures from all the main parties have been involved, although it is the Partido Popular (PP), which this month takes over as the national government, that has harboured some of the most spectacularly corrupt operators, happy to take bribes to facilitate building on agricultural land or without proper planning permission.\"In the past, it hasn't suited the powers that be to have a big expat population on the coast actively engaged and voting,\" says Houliston. \"It was easy for them to say: here's this big population who have come for the sun; well they've got the sun and that's all they need. There was a sense of injustice and a\u00a0feeling that the only way to get things done was with a new party. The success of Claro was to create a political consensus on the coast. It was a big surprise to the PP when we won.\"The intention, he said, was not to create a Little Britain party but one that reflected the local population, so there are Spanish and German members, and one of his coalition partners is a German Green; political meetings are held in three languages. For Houliston, his election and the increasing political involvement of Britons is a hopeful sign against a backdrop when traditionally expats did not bother involving themselves. \"This is all part of Europe,\" he says. \"For me, that's the fascinating thing. Think global, act local, as they say.\"A couple of hours north in Xalon, there's a different tale to be told. While Houliston and others like him may be hoping to change the way expats relate to their lives in Spain, others are calling it a day and heading home. In Xalon, there's the familiar evidence of a sizeable expat population: a hairdressers called The Cuts, Harry Stafford's fish and chip shop and Bar 23 offering roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and a chance to hear \"JJ Jones as Neil Diamond\". This has been home to Claire Hibberd, who moved from Chesterfield in Derbyshire, but is in the process of packing up, the office of the real estate firm she ran now full of boxes and well-wishers popping in to say goodbye.\"I've had enough,\" she says. \"I'm sick and tired.\" She is heading back in the wake of a \"malicious and slanderous\" campaign which has accused her of running a dodgy business and not paying her taxes. Crude anonymous leaflets about her have been stuffed in hundreds of local letter boxes. She is pretty sure who is behind it \u2013 another expat, \"with balls of steel\" \u2013 and she is in the process of making a denuncia (official complaint) about him to the local police, but her bags are packed. Such inter-expat feuds are not uncommon. She will miss Spain, which she made her home after her parents \u2013 her mother, Elaine, is a former town clerk of Belper \u2013 moved there. Her story \u2013 arriving full of enthusiasm but departing disillusioned \u2013 is not atypical.\"My parents wanted to live abroad,\" says Hibberd. \"They had wanted to go to France, but the Spanish tend to accept you more. I've met some people here who've reinvented themselves on the plane on the way out \u2013 they've suddenly become builders or skilled technicians when they were bin-men back in England. Here, British people tend to stick with other British people and you end up in a clique \u2013 but that's the worst thing you can do. I have had people say that they meet hostility because they are English, but that tends to be people who don't integrate. And people don't realise that things are not cheaper here,\" she says. \"Unless you're an alcoholic smoker,\" her partner, Darren, chips in with a smile. Among her clients are others who had hoped to make a go of it, she said, but have called in to say they can no longer pay the rent and are returning to England.But if there are committed stayers and unhappy goers, there is a third category: those who would like to return to the UK but cannot do so.Jo Hamilton, a local government worker from Manchester, bored by her job, decided in 2006 that she and her partner would \"live the dream\" in a place called Los Altos, not far from Orihuela Costa. Housing rip-offs, burglaries, unhelpful police, isolation, problems with other expats and the end of her relationship made it a hellish experience.\"Deep down I was becoming convinced that Spain was full of expats putting on a brave face and accepting the folly of their decision\u2026 with the usual British stiff upper lip,\" she writes in her cautionary tale, A Place in the Currant Bun. \"There is no getting away from the fact that there are many unhappy people stuck in Spain who would love to go home but who are unable to owing to lack of available finances. There must be millions of euros tied up in unloved and unwanted Spanish properties.\"Paul Rodwell, a tall, genial, multilingual young man, whose previous career was as a hotelier in Chile, Morocco and France ( you can imagine him effortlessly soothing newly arrived guests) is the British consul in Alicante, one of the world's busiest consulates. Almost a third of all Britons in Spain live in this region and last year the consulate dealt with 507 detentions (number one in the world) and helped 460 bereaved families (number two). He has noticed how the economic crisis has affected some expats.\"A lot of our people here are pensioners and they were faced, three or four years ago, with the fall in the value of the pound, so they saw the reduction of their pensions by 20 to 30%,\" says Rodwell, sitting in his office in a square of palm trees and coffee bars not too far from the seafront. The exact number of Britons in Spain is unclear since some people live only part of the year there and many full-timers have not registered with the padron \u2013 the municipal register which allows foreigners to vote and stand in local elections. Rodwell is quite evangelical about getting people on the padron, both as a way of them integrating better and to give the Spanish authorities a more accurate picture of how many there are.\"There is no statistical evidence of people returning home,\" says Rodwell, who has just been taking part in a Channel 4 documentary about life at the consulate, and could thus be a television star when it is broadcast in the spring. \"There have been incidences of people handing over the keys to the house to the bank, which is often the worst thing you can do as they can come after you. Broadly speaking, the Brits are seen as a pretty good bunch, and they contribute a\u00a0lot to the economy. The vast majority of them are enjoying life. People do really pursue the dream and it's admirable that they have that get up and go, but if they don't do their homework, it can be a nightmare. It's not easy at 40 or 50 to learn Spanish and it's even harder at 60 or 70.\"One of his jobs is trying to help people who have been involved in housing scams or disasters, which are legion. \"It has a big impact, a horrific situation for some people. There are heart attacks from the stress and we have had some people who are literally homeless.\" A third of the expat arrests he has to deal with are for domestic violence. \"The incidence has increased, which could be a manifestation that people are under stress at home perhaps, with the money not coming in.\" Amazingly, around a third of those arrested assumed that they would be dealt with by British rather than Spanish law.One of the problems, he says, is that some expats can drift into life in Spain without thinking too much about it. \"People talk about 'emigrating' to Australia or Canada, but they sometimes don't see moving to Spain in quite the same way. They don't realise that they are cutting ties and they will have to deal with insurance and mortgages and money in a foreign language. They think it will all be eating al fresco and fresh fish, but that can wear off pretty quickly.\"Spain is in the midst of its own economic catastrophe and its new government will soon be delivering harsh austerity measures to a\u00a0country already with 20% unemployment. Whether Britons stay or go is the least of their concerns. But, for expats who came for the sun, those chill economic winds mean that the crunch has come. Those expats who are not checking out return flights tend to fall into two categories: those who have come as traditional migrants, young families seeking a different life and \u2013 the majority \u2013 those who retired to the sun. In the first category are Emma and Alan Lawton and their 13-year-old daughter, Molly, from St Helens, who are now in their sixth year in Spain. They have their own house in Javea and run a successful excavation and demolition business.\"This is home now,\" says Emma, sitting outside their home beside the swimming pool and the orange tree. \"The quality of life is better. We are together more as a family and we have a wider variety of friends \u2013 Spanish, German, Swiss, all nationalities. We drink in local Spanish bars, although the first time we went in it was like a scene from a western \u2013 silence, everyone looking round. We were a bit of a novelty, trying to crack a market that was local. We got a frosty reception at first and we have had days when we thought about packing it in, but it's never been more than days and, to be honest, I've had more days like that in England. Here, it is more relaxed, it's no pasa nada [don't worry], but it's hard work and it's not all sunbathing and going out drinking.\"She says that the expats who have problems were ones who make little effort. \"If you go into a builder's merchants and the first thing you say is, 'Do you speak English?' then the barriers go up. Some people arrive with rose-tinted glasses and maybe not much Spanish apart from 'ola' and 'por favor',\" says Emma, who also spoke no Spanish when she arrived but now takes part in a project called hablemos, run by the local town hall, to help people integrate better; groups of around 15 or 16 people, half Spanish-, half English-speaking meet weekly to talk in each other's languages.Alan, who has just been accepted as a local volunteer bombero (firefighter), is also happy they made the jump. \"I've never broken a mobile phone out here and in England it would be one a month thrown at the wall,\" he says, referring to how stressful he found life back home. \"But the English have a bad name here. You get people who move out here and put their brains in storage at Alicante airport. They buy a Mercedes convertible and go out five or six nights a week, and a year later the bank has got their house and they've gone back to Britain. And we know of some people who've taken money for a\u00a0job and then gone back to England without doing it. It's a totally different way of life from England \u2013 you don't look at the local news on TV and think, 'Flipping heck, we'd better put some extra locks on the doors.'\"So are they here for the long haul?\"Whether we stay for ever is a difficult question,\" says Emma. \"If the economy improves we could be here for ever. What annoys me about the coverage of Spain in the British media \u2013 all those 'homes from hell' \u2013 is that it's not just in Spain people have these problems, it's happening everywhere.\"While Emma and Alan represent the new wave of expat, George and Pauline Stevenson are part of the large number of retired Britons on the Costas. George was the Labour MP for Stoke-on-Trent until 2005 and previously the MEP for Staffordshire East. At their home in Benitachell, there is Antony Beevor's history of the Spanish civil war on the table and photos at hand of the Stevensons with Barbara Castle and Michael Foot. When George retired from politics, they decided that they wanted, in Pauline's words, \"a new beginning\" in Spain. \"We didn't want to descend into our dotage,\" says George. \"We wanted to go to a country we had never lived in. When we moved here in 2005, the exchange rate was \u20ac1.70 to the \u00a31 and since then it's been down below \u20ac1.10. The first bombshell to hit the expats, many of whom depend on their pensions, was a damn near 30% reduction in the value of their pound. For people who arrived before that \u2013 they thought it would go on like that for ever.\"\"There are two kinds of expats,\" says Pauline, \"and there is a very clear distinction between them: there are the retired ones \u2013 they'd been teachers or local government workers, doctors \u2013 and they had come intending to stay because they'd had holidays here and liked it. But they also keep a place in the UK so that they can use the health service \u2013 get their prescription pills and have their knee done. And there are the others. They come to work and they might have got a job and it went pear-shaped. They're like the birds in the summer \u2013 they fly off and then come back again. But I think the Spanish are wonderful. I shall die here.\"There is no shortage, however, of the disgruntled Englishman abroad. The Daily Mail, that barometer of British peevishness, is the best-selling paper on the Spanish coast. Many of the seven expat English-language weekly newspapers carry regular baleful columns about the hellishness of life in \"multicultural, politically correct, health-and-safety\" Britain, complete with apocryphal stories of queue-jumping asylum-seekers, while simultaneously reminding readers of the many perils of being an expat. Some of the five expat radio stations carry the same gloomy conversations.The Euro Weekly News's resident columnist, Leapy Lee, who had a hit record with \"Little Arrows\" in 1968 but whose career took a tumble after he was jailed over a fracas involving a bloody pub brawl in the company of the late Alan Lake, husband of Diana Dors, is one example. In October, Leapy, who lives in Mallorca, told his readers that the BNP is now \"the only party spouting a bit of common sense\". Not a few expats talk, completely without irony, of how Britain has been ruined by immigrants who don't bother to learn the language.The Costa boom is over. The empty houses and urbanisations carry ever-reducing price-tags. For those expats battered by the economic storms when all they sought was a little quiet sun the choices are stark: stay and make the best of it \u2013 al-fresco eating and fresh fish included \u2013 or head home to an uncertain future in a land that now looks rather less kindly on new arrivals.", "tags": ["Spain", "Property", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Money", "Expat finance"], "title": "Economic crisis: The pain in Spain"},{"date": "2011-10-10T17:15:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alarm bells are being rung over Spain's ability to hit its public deficit target this year without taking further dramatic steps to raise extra income or cut spending.Figures released last week by the national statistics institute (INE) show that the deficit level remained virtually unchanged during the first half of this year, according to one of the country's leading analysts.Angel Laborda, of the savings banks federation Funcas, said the figures on the overall borrowing needs of Spain's public administration meant the chances of bringing the deficit down from 9% to 6% this year were slim.The deficit could now head for between 7.5 and 8%of GDP \u2013 well off the target agreed by the socialist government of prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and the European Union and much worse than previous analysts' estimates.\"Most of the year has already gone so I think it is impossible to meet 6%,\" Laborda said. \"I'd say it will be closer to 8%.\"He blamed the problem on the regional governments, who account for a third of public spending. Many had only seriously begun to cut spending after May elections, he said. Lower-than-expected growth was also a handicap.Separate figures show that central government has brought down its part of the deficit, suggesting that regional governments may have actually grown their deficits during the first half of the year, he said.The Zapatero government has staked its credibility in the markets on hitting deficit targets. The fact that it met last year's target, together with Spain's relatively low overall national debt, helps to explain why bond yields have been lower than neighbouring Italy's.Finance minister Elena Salgado has repeatedly vowed to meet this year's 6% target. The socialist government, which is set to be replaced by the conservative People's Party (PP) at a general election on 20 November, has said it will introduce new measures if it has to.\"Our objective of a 6% deficit at year's end will not be given up on,\" a finance ministry spokesman reaffirmed. \"We have said many times that we will do whatever it takes to meet that.\"The PP has also pledged to meet deficit targets. The spokesman blamed a change in INE's metholodogy for Laborda's calculations. Laborda denied that there was a problem, saying INE had also presented its data on previous years using the new methodology.The average predicted deficit figure from 18 of Spain's top analysts prior to last week's figures was 6.5% for 2011.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Business", "European banks", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Euro", "Spain", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Spain unlikely to meet deficit target"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:22:08Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Spain's new government said on Friday that the country's budget deficit is higher than previously thought as it announced a new package of spending cuts and tax increases designed to conform to the eurozone's austerity pact and fend off attack by international financial markets.\"We are forced to take extraordinary decisions and adopt unexpected measures,\" the Spanish vice-president Soraya S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said as the new government opened the first chapter of what looks like being a long tale of austerity. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the measures were necessary because the public deficit is running at 8%, not the 6% they were led to believe by the outgoing administration, a difference of about \u20ac20bn (\u00a317bn).The principal measure comes in the form of an \u20ac8.9bn budget cut spread across all government departments. There are also across-the-board income tax increases and for home-owners, a one-year freeze on public sector salaries, a freeze on the minimum wage of \u20ac641.40 a month and cuts in subsidies to trade unions and political parties. Pensions, as promised, will rise by 1% next month, and the cut-off point for unemployment benefit is to be extended for a further six months.\"These measures are the beginning of the beginning of a package of structural reforms designed to cut the deficit and stimulate the economy,\" S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said. Financial and employment law reform are being held back until later in January. It is rumoured that Mariano Rajoy's government may delay the really unpopular measures until the end of March, after the regional elections in Andalusia which his Partido Popular hopes to win for the first time in its history. The full budget, designed to meet Rajoy's target of \u20ac16.5bn in cuts, will not be presented to parliament until 31 March.As well as freezing public sector wages, Spanish civil servants will find their working week extended from 35 to 37.5 hours. Vacancies will not be filled except in health, education, state security and the armed forces for an unspecified time. Cuts in subsidies to political parties are expected to save \u20ac29.7m while the reduction in trade union and other representative bodies' funding will save \u20ac55m.Income tax on salaries of \u20ac9,500 will rise 0.75% and by up to 7% on incomes above \u20ac300,000. Property tax, roughly equivalent to the UK council tax, is also going up on all properties that are \"above average value,\" which in reality means 50% of urban property. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the increases, which \"are temporary and only for the next two years,\" would raise \u20ac6.2bn. Rajoy's party enjoys an absolute majority so it can be taken as given that these measures will become law.Rajoy, who won the election without promising anything at all, still seems to be holding back on deep reform. The cuts are more slash and burn than structural and the government is still ducking the issue of employment reform. Spain's employment laws have created a two-tier system of virtually unsackable employees with cast-iron contracts \u2013 doggedly defended by the trade unions \u2013 and a much larger group of workers with no job security. Employers are reluctant to offer full-time contracts because of the cost of making people redundant. Rajoy was not present at the press conference. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda was accompanied by Luis de Guindos, the finance minister; Crist\u00f3bal Montoro the inland revenue minister and F\u00e1tima B\u00e1\u00f1ez, employment.No ministry escapes unscathed, with budget cuts of \u20ac485m at employment, \u20ac439m at the inland revenue, \u20ac409m at the health ministry, \u20ac401m at agriculture, \u20ac340m at defence, \u20ac163m at the interior ministry and \u20ac48m at the justice department. However, the biggest cuts are reserved for the ministry of works, \u20ac1.6bn, and 1bn each for the foreign, industry and finance ministries.Amid all the austerity, there were no measures that appeared to be designed to boost productivity or dent Spain's crippling 23% unemployment rate. Indeed, the spending cuts seem certain to lead to job losses. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda, who gave birth to her first child six weeks ago, also announced the suspension of plans to extend paternity leave to one month until 2013.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain makes \u20ac9bn budget cuts to cover rising deficit"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-04T00:04:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There is lunchtime bingo at the Judge's Chambers, beef-burgers at Sunny Jim's. There are piles of the Daily Mail, Sun and Heat magazine for sale at the News Box and the Bankinter is wooing prospective depositors with the come-on: \"It's good when a bank speaks the same language as you.\" This is Orihuela Costa, the town with the largest percentage of British people anywhere in the world outside the United Kingdom.In the town hall office, flanked by a framed photograph of King Juan Carlos and the flags of Spain and the European Union, sits Bob Houliston, the quietly spoken Geordie whose surprise election this May allowed the party which he helped to form wrest power from the mighty Partido Popular, which had ruled the roost on this stretch of Spain's Costa Blanca since the end of the Franco era.\"Thirty years ago there were just a few trees here,\" says Houliston, who spent 10 years in the diplomatic service and a further three decades in the European Commission before retiring here with his Spanish wife, Isabel. \"Now there are 30,000 people living here. It's been a very radical change.\"Benidorm, further north along the coast, may be the most famously transformed fishing village in the world, but it is mainly a\u00a0tourist destination, while Orihuela Costa caters for those seeking, in a phrase used unselfconsciously by local estate agents, to \"live the dream\".An estimated one million Britons now live for all or part of the year in Spain. It is one of the most remarkable European migrations of the last half century. Large-scale population shifts are normally driven by economic factors, whether desperate necessity or a desire for the \"better life\", but the great British exodus to Spain had different engines. An escape from gloomy old Britain to a less frenzied existence in the sun.Fifty years ago, such escape routes were available only to well-off Britons, who could buy a villa in the Bahamas or the C\u00f4te d'Azur or Tuscany. Cheap flights, a strong pound and a British property market which created almost instant wealth made a fantasy realisable for hundreds of thousands of people of more modest means. Houses in Spain couldn't be built fast enough. Great swathes of the coast and countryside became clustered with urbanisations, instant housing estates thrown up to cater to what seemed to be an endless stream of Britons, Germans and other northern Europeans now able to live the kind of life abroad of which their parents could only have dreamed. Developers, estate agents, builders, had never had it so good.Three years ago came la crisis \u2013 the economic crash \u2013 and with it the collapse of the property market. Now estimates of the number of empty, unsold properties in Spain vary between 700,000 and 1.5m. Abandoned, half-finished, ghostly urbanisations abound. Ten years ago, an expat who wanted to return to Britain could easily sell their Spanish property. No longer.Last week, the Office for National Statistics announced that emigration from Britain last year was at its lowest since 2001, a potent sign of the end of the great British exodus to Spain. In October this year, the National Institute for Statistics in Spain reported that, for the first time in a decade, the number of immigrants leaving the country outnumbered those coming in. Those departing may be mainly Latin Americans, eastern Europeans and a number of Britons thrown out of work by the collapse of the construction industry, and la crisis has brought to a head many of the unspoken issues that the great British immigration \u2013 \"colonisation\", as some Spaniards see it \u2013 had left unspoken. Are the British there to stay or are they semi-detached? What la crisis has done is to force expats to decide: do we head home to grey, unwelcoming Britain or do we remain, either as an active, integrated part of Spanish life or as unwilling strangers, as aloof and distant as in the old days of empire?Around half of Orihuela Costa's 30,000 inhabitants are British, far outnumbering other expats and the Spanish themselves, who make up only about 10% of the population. Many of the expats voted in the local elections in May for Claro (Cerca del Pueblo, Limpio, Activo, Reformista Orihuelo Costa), the party, formed in 2006, which Houliston represents. The key word there is limpio, the Spanish for \"clean\", which is understood by voters to mean that the party aimed to end the endemic bribery that has defaced Spanish politics on the coast and given such grief to unwary expats who bought illegally built homes. Figures from all the main parties have been involved, although it is the Partido Popular (PP), which this month takes over as the national government, that has harboured some of the most spectacularly corrupt operators, happy to take bribes to facilitate building on agricultural land or without proper planning permission.\"In the past, it hasn't suited the powers that be to have a big expat population on the coast actively engaged and voting,\" says Houliston. \"It was easy for them to say: here's this big population who have come for the sun; well they've got the sun and that's all they need. There was a sense of injustice and a\u00a0feeling that the only way to get things done was with a new party. The success of Claro was to create a political consensus on the coast. It was a big surprise to the PP when we won.\"The intention, he said, was not to create a Little Britain party but one that reflected the local population, so there are Spanish and German members, and one of his coalition partners is a German Green; political meetings are held in three languages. For Houliston, his election and the increasing political involvement of Britons is a hopeful sign against a backdrop when traditionally expats did not bother involving themselves. \"This is all part of Europe,\" he says. \"For me, that's the fascinating thing. Think global, act local, as they say.\"A couple of hours north in Xalon, there's a different tale to be told. While Houliston and others like him may be hoping to change the way expats relate to their lives in Spain, others are calling it a day and heading home. In Xalon, there's the familiar evidence of a sizeable expat population: a hairdressers called The Cuts, Harry Stafford's fish and chip shop and Bar 23 offering roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and a chance to hear \"JJ Jones as Neil Diamond\". This has been home to Claire Hibberd, who moved from Chesterfield in Derbyshire, but is in the process of packing up, the office of the real estate firm she ran now full of boxes and well-wishers popping in to say goodbye.\"I've had enough,\" she says. \"I'm sick and tired.\" She is heading back in the wake of a \"malicious and slanderous\" campaign which has accused her of running a dodgy business and not paying her taxes. Crude anonymous leaflets about her have been stuffed in hundreds of local letter boxes. She is pretty sure who is behind it \u2013 another expat, \"with balls of steel\" \u2013 and she is in the process of making a denuncia (official complaint) about him to the local police, but her bags are packed. Such inter-expat feuds are not uncommon. She will miss Spain, which she made her home after her parents \u2013 her mother, Elaine, is a former town clerk of Belper \u2013 moved there. Her story \u2013 arriving full of enthusiasm but departing disillusioned \u2013 is not atypical.\"My parents wanted to live abroad,\" says Hibberd. \"They had wanted to go to France, but the Spanish tend to accept you more. I've met some people here who've reinvented themselves on the plane on the way out \u2013 they've suddenly become builders or skilled technicians when they were bin-men back in England. Here, British people tend to stick with other British people and you end up in a clique \u2013 but that's the worst thing you can do. I have had people say that they meet hostility because they are English, but that tends to be people who don't integrate. And people don't realise that things are not cheaper here,\" she says. \"Unless you're an alcoholic smoker,\" her partner, Darren, chips in with a smile. Among her clients are others who had hoped to make a go of it, she said, but have called in to say they can no longer pay the rent and are returning to England.But if there are committed stayers and unhappy goers, there is a third category: those who would like to return to the UK but cannot do so.Jo Hamilton, a local government worker from Manchester, bored by her job, decided in 2006 that she and her partner would \"live the dream\" in a place called Los Altos, not far from Orihuela Costa. Housing rip-offs, burglaries, unhelpful police, isolation, problems with other expats and the end of her relationship made it a hellish experience.\"Deep down I was becoming convinced that Spain was full of expats putting on a brave face and accepting the folly of their decision\u2026 with the usual British stiff upper lip,\" she writes in her cautionary tale, A Place in the Currant Bun. \"There is no getting away from the fact that there are many unhappy people stuck in Spain who would love to go home but who are unable to owing to lack of available finances. There must be millions of euros tied up in unloved and unwanted Spanish properties.\"Paul Rodwell, a tall, genial, multilingual young man, whose previous career was as a hotelier in Chile, Morocco and France ( you can imagine him effortlessly soothing newly arrived guests) is the British consul in Alicante, one of the world's busiest consulates. Almost a third of all Britons in Spain live in this region and last year the consulate dealt with 507 detentions (number one in the world) and helped 460 bereaved families (number two). He has noticed how the economic crisis has affected some expats.\"A lot of our people here are pensioners and they were faced, three or four years ago, with the fall in the value of the pound, so they saw the reduction of their pensions by 20 to 30%,\" says Rodwell, sitting in his office in a square of palm trees and coffee bars not too far from the seafront. The exact number of Britons in Spain is unclear since some people live only part of the year there and many full-timers have not registered with the padron \u2013 the municipal register which allows foreigners to vote and stand in local elections. Rodwell is quite evangelical about getting people on the padron, both as a way of them integrating better and to give the Spanish authorities a more accurate picture of how many there are.\"There is no statistical evidence of people returning home,\" says Rodwell, who has just been taking part in a Channel 4 documentary about life at the consulate, and could thus be a television star when it is broadcast in the spring. \"There have been incidences of people handing over the keys to the house to the bank, which is often the worst thing you can do as they can come after you. Broadly speaking, the Brits are seen as a pretty good bunch, and they contribute a\u00a0lot to the economy. The vast majority of them are enjoying life. People do really pursue the dream and it's admirable that they have that get up and go, but if they don't do their homework, it can be a nightmare. It's not easy at 40 or 50 to learn Spanish and it's even harder at 60 or 70.\"One of his jobs is trying to help people who have been involved in housing scams or disasters, which are legion. \"It has a big impact, a horrific situation for some people. There are heart attacks from the stress and we have had some people who are literally homeless.\" A third of the expat arrests he has to deal with are for domestic violence. \"The incidence has increased, which could be a manifestation that people are under stress at home perhaps, with the money not coming in.\" Amazingly, around a third of those arrested assumed that they would be dealt with by British rather than Spanish law.One of the problems, he says, is that some expats can drift into life in Spain without thinking too much about it. \"People talk about 'emigrating' to Australia or Canada, but they sometimes don't see moving to Spain in quite the same way. They don't realise that they are cutting ties and they will have to deal with insurance and mortgages and money in a foreign language. They think it will all be eating al fresco and fresh fish, but that can wear off pretty quickly.\"Spain is in the midst of its own economic catastrophe and its new government will soon be delivering harsh austerity measures to a\u00a0country already with 20% unemployment. Whether Britons stay or go is the least of their concerns. But, for expats who came for the sun, those chill economic winds mean that the crunch has come. Those expats who are not checking out return flights tend to fall into two categories: those who have come as traditional migrants, young families seeking a different life and \u2013 the majority \u2013 those who retired to the sun. In the first category are Emma and Alan Lawton and their 13-year-old daughter, Molly, from St Helens, who are now in their sixth year in Spain. They have their own house in Javea and run a successful excavation and demolition business.\"This is home now,\" says Emma, sitting outside their home beside the swimming pool and the orange tree. \"The quality of life is better. We are together more as a family and we have a wider variety of friends \u2013 Spanish, German, Swiss, all nationalities. We drink in local Spanish bars, although the first time we went in it was like a scene from a western \u2013 silence, everyone looking round. We were a bit of a novelty, trying to crack a market that was local. We got a frosty reception at first and we have had days when we thought about packing it in, but it's never been more than days and, to be honest, I've had more days like that in England. Here, it is more relaxed, it's no pasa nada [don't worry], but it's hard work and it's not all sunbathing and going out drinking.\"She says that the expats who have problems were ones who make little effort. \"If you go into a builder's merchants and the first thing you say is, 'Do you speak English?' then the barriers go up. Some people arrive with rose-tinted glasses and maybe not much Spanish apart from 'ola' and 'por favor',\" says Emma, who also spoke no Spanish when she arrived but now takes part in a project called hablemos, run by the local town hall, to help people integrate better; groups of around 15 or 16 people, half Spanish-, half English-speaking meet weekly to talk in each other's languages.Alan, who has just been accepted as a local volunteer bombero (firefighter), is also happy they made the jump. \"I've never broken a mobile phone out here and in England it would be one a month thrown at the wall,\" he says, referring to how stressful he found life back home. \"But the English have a bad name here. You get people who move out here and put their brains in storage at Alicante airport. They buy a Mercedes convertible and go out five or six nights a week, and a year later the bank has got their house and they've gone back to Britain. And we know of some people who've taken money for a\u00a0job and then gone back to England without doing it. It's a totally different way of life from England \u2013 you don't look at the local news on TV and think, 'Flipping heck, we'd better put some extra locks on the doors.'\"So are they here for the long haul?\"Whether we stay for ever is a difficult question,\" says Emma. \"If the economy improves we could be here for ever. What annoys me about the coverage of Spain in the British media \u2013 all those 'homes from hell' \u2013 is that it's not just in Spain people have these problems, it's happening everywhere.\"While Emma and Alan represent the new wave of expat, George and Pauline Stevenson are part of the large number of retired Britons on the Costas. George was the Labour MP for Stoke-on-Trent until 2005 and previously the MEP for Staffordshire East. At their home in Benitachell, there is Antony Beevor's history of the Spanish civil war on the table and photos at hand of the Stevensons with Barbara Castle and Michael Foot. When George retired from politics, they decided that they wanted, in Pauline's words, \"a new beginning\" in Spain. \"We didn't want to descend into our dotage,\" says George. \"We wanted to go to a country we had never lived in. When we moved here in 2005, the exchange rate was \u20ac1.70 to the \u00a31 and since then it's been down below \u20ac1.10. The first bombshell to hit the expats, many of whom depend on their pensions, was a damn near 30% reduction in the value of their pound. For people who arrived before that \u2013 they thought it would go on like that for ever.\"\"There are two kinds of expats,\" says Pauline, \"and there is a very clear distinction between them: there are the retired ones \u2013 they'd been teachers or local government workers, doctors \u2013 and they had come intending to stay because they'd had holidays here and liked it. But they also keep a place in the UK so that they can use the health service \u2013 get their prescription pills and have their knee done. And there are the others. They come to work and they might have got a job and it went pear-shaped. They're like the birds in the summer \u2013 they fly off and then come back again. But I think the Spanish are wonderful. I shall die here.\"There is no shortage, however, of the disgruntled Englishman abroad. The Daily Mail, that barometer of British peevishness, is the best-selling paper on the Spanish coast. Many of the seven expat English-language weekly newspapers carry regular baleful columns about the hellishness of life in \"multicultural, politically correct, health-and-safety\" Britain, complete with apocryphal stories of queue-jumping asylum-seekers, while simultaneously reminding readers of the many perils of being an expat. Some of the five expat radio stations carry the same gloomy conversations.The Euro Weekly News's resident columnist, Leapy Lee, who had a hit record with \"Little Arrows\" in 1968 but whose career took a tumble after he was jailed over a fracas involving a bloody pub brawl in the company of the late Alan Lake, husband of Diana Dors, is one example. In October, Leapy, who lives in Mallorca, told his readers that the BNP is now \"the only party spouting a bit of common sense\". Not a few expats talk, completely without irony, of how Britain has been ruined by immigrants who don't bother to learn the language.The Costa boom is over. The empty houses and urbanisations carry ever-reducing price-tags. For those expats battered by the economic storms when all they sought was a little quiet sun the choices are stark: stay and make the best of it \u2013 al-fresco eating and fresh fish included \u2013 or head home to an uncertain future in a land that now looks rather less kindly on new arrivals.", "tags": ["Spain", "Property", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Money", "Expat finance"], "title": "Economic crisis: The pain in Spain"},{"date": "2011-10-10T17:15:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alarm bells are being rung over Spain's ability to hit its public deficit target this year without taking further dramatic steps to raise extra income or cut spending.Figures released last week by the national statistics institute (INE) show that the deficit level remained virtually unchanged during the first half of this year, according to one of the country's leading analysts.Angel Laborda, of the savings banks federation Funcas, said the figures on the overall borrowing needs of Spain's public administration meant the chances of bringing the deficit down from 9% to 6% this year were slim.The deficit could now head for between 7.5 and 8%of GDP \u2013 well off the target agreed by the socialist government of prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and the European Union and much worse than previous analysts' estimates.\"Most of the year has already gone so I think it is impossible to meet 6%,\" Laborda said. \"I'd say it will be closer to 8%.\"He blamed the problem on the regional governments, who account for a third of public spending. Many had only seriously begun to cut spending after May elections, he said. Lower-than-expected growth was also a handicap.Separate figures show that central government has brought down its part of the deficit, suggesting that regional governments may have actually grown their deficits during the first half of the year, he said.The Zapatero government has staked its credibility in the markets on hitting deficit targets. The fact that it met last year's target, together with Spain's relatively low overall national debt, helps to explain why bond yields have been lower than neighbouring Italy's.Finance minister Elena Salgado has repeatedly vowed to meet this year's 6% target. The socialist government, which is set to be replaced by the conservative People's Party (PP) at a general election on 20 November, has said it will introduce new measures if it has to.\"Our objective of a 6% deficit at year's end will not be given up on,\" a finance ministry spokesman reaffirmed. \"We have said many times that we will do whatever it takes to meet that.\"The PP has also pledged to meet deficit targets. The spokesman blamed a change in INE's metholodogy for Laborda's calculations. Laborda denied that there was a problem, saying INE had also presented its data on previous years using the new methodology.The average predicted deficit figure from 18 of Spain's top analysts prior to last week's figures was 6.5% for 2011.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Business", "European banks", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Euro", "Spain", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Spain unlikely to meet deficit target"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:22:08Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Spain's new government said on Friday that the country's budget deficit is higher than previously thought as it announced a new package of spending cuts and tax increases designed to conform to the eurozone's austerity pact and fend off attack by international financial markets.\"We are forced to take extraordinary decisions and adopt unexpected measures,\" the Spanish vice-president Soraya S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said as the new government opened the first chapter of what looks like being a long tale of austerity. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the measures were necessary because the public deficit is running at 8%, not the 6% they were led to believe by the outgoing administration, a difference of about \u20ac20bn (\u00a317bn).The principal measure comes in the form of an \u20ac8.9bn budget cut spread across all government departments. There are also across-the-board income tax increases and for home-owners, a one-year freeze on public sector salaries, a freeze on the minimum wage of \u20ac641.40 a month and cuts in subsidies to trade unions and political parties. Pensions, as promised, will rise by 1% next month, and the cut-off point for unemployment benefit is to be extended for a further six months.\"These measures are the beginning of the beginning of a package of structural reforms designed to cut the deficit and stimulate the economy,\" S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said. Financial and employment law reform are being held back until later in January. It is rumoured that Mariano Rajoy's government may delay the really unpopular measures until the end of March, after the regional elections in Andalusia which his Partido Popular hopes to win for the first time in its history. The full budget, designed to meet Rajoy's target of \u20ac16.5bn in cuts, will not be presented to parliament until 31 March.As well as freezing public sector wages, Spanish civil servants will find their working week extended from 35 to 37.5 hours. Vacancies will not be filled except in health, education, state security and the armed forces for an unspecified time. Cuts in subsidies to political parties are expected to save \u20ac29.7m while the reduction in trade union and other representative bodies' funding will save \u20ac55m.Income tax on salaries of \u20ac9,500 will rise 0.75% and by up to 7% on incomes above \u20ac300,000. Property tax, roughly equivalent to the UK council tax, is also going up on all properties that are \"above average value,\" which in reality means 50% of urban property. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the increases, which \"are temporary and only for the next two years,\" would raise \u20ac6.2bn. Rajoy's party enjoys an absolute majority so it can be taken as given that these measures will become law.Rajoy, who won the election without promising anything at all, still seems to be holding back on deep reform. The cuts are more slash and burn than structural and the government is still ducking the issue of employment reform. Spain's employment laws have created a two-tier system of virtually unsackable employees with cast-iron contracts \u2013 doggedly defended by the trade unions \u2013 and a much larger group of workers with no job security. Employers are reluctant to offer full-time contracts because of the cost of making people redundant. Rajoy was not present at the press conference. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda was accompanied by Luis de Guindos, the finance minister; Crist\u00f3bal Montoro the inland revenue minister and F\u00e1tima B\u00e1\u00f1ez, employment.No ministry escapes unscathed, with budget cuts of \u20ac485m at employment, \u20ac439m at the inland revenue, \u20ac409m at the health ministry, \u20ac401m at agriculture, \u20ac340m at defence, \u20ac163m at the interior ministry and \u20ac48m at the justice department. However, the biggest cuts are reserved for the ministry of works, \u20ac1.6bn, and 1bn each for the foreign, industry and finance ministries.Amid all the austerity, there were no measures that appeared to be designed to boost productivity or dent Spain's crippling 23% unemployment rate. Indeed, the spending cuts seem certain to lead to job losses. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda, who gave birth to her first child six weeks ago, also announced the suspension of plans to extend paternity leave to one month until 2013.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain makes \u20ac9bn budget cuts to cover rising deficit"},{"date": "2011-12-26T18:11:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's new economy minister warned on Monday that the fragile economy was slipping back into recession \u2013 barely two years after climbing out of its last economic downturn.Luis de Guindos, economy minister in the new conservative Popular Party government led by Mariano Rajoy, conceded that he expected the economy to contract up to 0.3% in the final three months of 2011 and again in the first quarter of the new year. Technically, a recession is two consecutive quarters of negative growth.Spain last pulled out of recession at the start of 2010 but is still trying to tackle the highest rate of joblessness in the eurozone of 21.5%.Its new government is committed to curbing the budget deficit by \u20ac16.5bn (\u00a314bn) in 2012 through sweeping cuts and is expected to try to clean up banks that have been battered by loans to property companies and exposure to troubled countries in the eurozone. \"This quarter the Spanish economy will surely see a downturn and we will return to negative growth,\" de Guindos told a news conference.\"Let nobody be fooled, the next two quarters are not going to be easy either in terms of growth or employment,\" he was quoted as saying by the Associated Press.Spain is trying to reassure markets that it can curb its deficit to avoid being punished by investors anxious about the future of the 17 nation European single currency. Just before the Christmas holiday, the yield on 10-year bonds \u2013 which reflects the real cost of borrowing for governments \u2013 increased two basis points to 5.41% before a 7 January deadline for employers and unions to come up with a labour reform agreement demanded by the government.While markets will seize upon de Guindos' remarks as signalling a new recession, the warning signs have been apparent for some time. After showing growth in the first half of 2011, by the third quarter the economy was registering zero growth amid fears of a break up of the eurozone and economists had begun to issue forecasts of negative growth for the remainder of the year.Since being elected last month, Rajoy has been calling on Spaniards to work together to try to overcome the debt crisis and to tackle unemployment which is more than double the average in the EU. He forced out the socialist government of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero who was criticised for being too slow to respond to the economic crisis that gripped the country in 2009.The incoming government is scheduled to unveil its economic measures on Friday.After a rush by eurozone banks to take up cheap European Central Bank loans last week highlighted the precarious state of the region's financial system, the head of German industrial conglomerate Siemens joined the chorus of voices warning of a credit crunch.Siemens chief executive Peter Loescher told German newspaper Der Tagesspiegel: \"One danger is evident, namely that of a credit crunch. The European Central Bank, however, has just shown again that it is very vigilant in that respect and also able to act.\"The ECB's first ever offer of three-year loans was snapped up to the tune of half a trillion euros but some market analysts said it would do little to solve the eurozone's fundamental debt problems.Loescher argued, however, that the economy was in better state than many believed.\"The real economy is in a more robust shape than the headlines from the financial world would make us believe,\" he said.  ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Central Bank", "Economics", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Spain"], "title": "Spain faces more pain before economy recovers, warns minister"},{"date": "2011-11-06T22:23:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain goes to the polls in just under two weeks in conditions that look depressingly familiar. Unemployment, already the highest in Europe, has now risen to over 22%. Economic growth has staggered to a halt. Spain's sovereign debt remains under market pressure, in spite of tight fiscal restraint. Neither candidate of the two leading parties inspires, still less do they represent. Just over half of the \"indignados\", Spain's protest youth movement, turned out in May's municipal elections which wiped out the ruling socialists.History will probably be kinder to the outgoing socialist prime minister, Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero, than the present is proving to be. Mr Zapatero's election in 2004 was something of a surprise, in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings three days before the vote, and the widespread belief that the centre-right government of Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar had lied in its response to the attacks, blaming them on the Basque separatist group Eta and not on al-Qaida. And Mr Zapatero has always been an easy politician to caricature. When Spain assumed the EU presidency last year, a picture of Mr Bean was temporarily posted on the official website.But Mr Zapatero was too easily underestimated. The accidental prime minister might have been tempted to coast \u2013 Spaniards were growing richer per head than Italians and half the cement used in Europe was being poured in Spain. Instead, he used his first term of office to enact progressive social reforms \u2013 the legalisation of gay marriage, \"express divorce\" laws, increasing the minimum wage, amnestying illegal immigrants. His historical memory law recognised the victims of both sides of the Spanish civil war and Franco's regime. He wanted, his supporters said, to hold a mirror up to modern Spain. He made errors, too: on a charter for Catalan autonomy and by negotiating with Eta after a ceasefire was broken. Ultimately, Mr Zapatero has fallen victim to his times. It was precisely because of all that concrete being poured and the bubble over which he presided that he, like other European centre-left leaders, now appears to have run out of road.Spain now has to choose between two technocrats: the socialist, Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, and the conservative, Mariano Rajoy. Neither represents the youthful renewal of Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez in 1982 or Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar in 1996. Mr Rajoy, a two-time election loser, is hardly a fresh face either, but Spain seems so fed up with its government that the only question appears to be the extent of his victory. The task awaiting him, however, is the same that faces the current generation of European leaders whether of left or right \u2013 the management of decline, hard times and a troubled electorate.", "tags": ["Spain", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain: victims of hard times | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-04T00:04:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There is lunchtime bingo at the Judge's Chambers, beef-burgers at Sunny Jim's. There are piles of the Daily Mail, Sun and Heat magazine for sale at the News Box and the Bankinter is wooing prospective depositors with the come-on: \"It's good when a bank speaks the same language as you.\" This is Orihuela Costa, the town with the largest percentage of British people anywhere in the world outside the United Kingdom.In the town hall office, flanked by a framed photograph of King Juan Carlos and the flags of Spain and the European Union, sits Bob Houliston, the quietly spoken Geordie whose surprise election this May allowed the party which he helped to form wrest power from the mighty Partido Popular, which had ruled the roost on this stretch of Spain's Costa Blanca since the end of the Franco era.\"Thirty years ago there were just a few trees here,\" says Houliston, who spent 10 years in the diplomatic service and a further three decades in the European Commission before retiring here with his Spanish wife, Isabel. \"Now there are 30,000 people living here. It's been a very radical change.\"Benidorm, further north along the coast, may be the most famously transformed fishing village in the world, but it is mainly a\u00a0tourist destination, while Orihuela Costa caters for those seeking, in a phrase used unselfconsciously by local estate agents, to \"live the dream\".An estimated one million Britons now live for all or part of the year in Spain. It is one of the most remarkable European migrations of the last half century. Large-scale population shifts are normally driven by economic factors, whether desperate necessity or a desire for the \"better life\", but the great British exodus to Spain had different engines. An escape from gloomy old Britain to a less frenzied existence in the sun.Fifty years ago, such escape routes were available only to well-off Britons, who could buy a villa in the Bahamas or the C\u00f4te d'Azur or Tuscany. Cheap flights, a strong pound and a British property market which created almost instant wealth made a fantasy realisable for hundreds of thousands of people of more modest means. Houses in Spain couldn't be built fast enough. Great swathes of the coast and countryside became clustered with urbanisations, instant housing estates thrown up to cater to what seemed to be an endless stream of Britons, Germans and other northern Europeans now able to live the kind of life abroad of which their parents could only have dreamed. Developers, estate agents, builders, had never had it so good.Three years ago came la crisis \u2013 the economic crash \u2013 and with it the collapse of the property market. Now estimates of the number of empty, unsold properties in Spain vary between 700,000 and 1.5m. Abandoned, half-finished, ghostly urbanisations abound. Ten years ago, an expat who wanted to return to Britain could easily sell their Spanish property. No longer.Last week, the Office for National Statistics announced that emigration from Britain last year was at its lowest since 2001, a potent sign of the end of the great British exodus to Spain. In October this year, the National Institute for Statistics in Spain reported that, for the first time in a decade, the number of immigrants leaving the country outnumbered those coming in. Those departing may be mainly Latin Americans, eastern Europeans and a number of Britons thrown out of work by the collapse of the construction industry, and la crisis has brought to a head many of the unspoken issues that the great British immigration \u2013 \"colonisation\", as some Spaniards see it \u2013 had left unspoken. Are the British there to stay or are they semi-detached? What la crisis has done is to force expats to decide: do we head home to grey, unwelcoming Britain or do we remain, either as an active, integrated part of Spanish life or as unwilling strangers, as aloof and distant as in the old days of empire?Around half of Orihuela Costa's 30,000 inhabitants are British, far outnumbering other expats and the Spanish themselves, who make up only about 10% of the population. Many of the expats voted in the local elections in May for Claro (Cerca del Pueblo, Limpio, Activo, Reformista Orihuelo Costa), the party, formed in 2006, which Houliston represents. The key word there is limpio, the Spanish for \"clean\", which is understood by voters to mean that the party aimed to end the endemic bribery that has defaced Spanish politics on the coast and given such grief to unwary expats who bought illegally built homes. Figures from all the main parties have been involved, although it is the Partido Popular (PP), which this month takes over as the national government, that has harboured some of the most spectacularly corrupt operators, happy to take bribes to facilitate building on agricultural land or without proper planning permission.\"In the past, it hasn't suited the powers that be to have a big expat population on the coast actively engaged and voting,\" says Houliston. \"It was easy for them to say: here's this big population who have come for the sun; well they've got the sun and that's all they need. There was a sense of injustice and a\u00a0feeling that the only way to get things done was with a new party. The success of Claro was to create a political consensus on the coast. It was a big surprise to the PP when we won.\"The intention, he said, was not to create a Little Britain party but one that reflected the local population, so there are Spanish and German members, and one of his coalition partners is a German Green; political meetings are held in three languages. For Houliston, his election and the increasing political involvement of Britons is a hopeful sign against a backdrop when traditionally expats did not bother involving themselves. \"This is all part of Europe,\" he says. \"For me, that's the fascinating thing. Think global, act local, as they say.\"A couple of hours north in Xalon, there's a different tale to be told. While Houliston and others like him may be hoping to change the way expats relate to their lives in Spain, others are calling it a day and heading home. In Xalon, there's the familiar evidence of a sizeable expat population: a hairdressers called The Cuts, Harry Stafford's fish and chip shop and Bar 23 offering roast beef and Yorkshire pudding and a chance to hear \"JJ Jones as Neil Diamond\". This has been home to Claire Hibberd, who moved from Chesterfield in Derbyshire, but is in the process of packing up, the office of the real estate firm she ran now full of boxes and well-wishers popping in to say goodbye.\"I've had enough,\" she says. \"I'm sick and tired.\" She is heading back in the wake of a \"malicious and slanderous\" campaign which has accused her of running a dodgy business and not paying her taxes. Crude anonymous leaflets about her have been stuffed in hundreds of local letter boxes. She is pretty sure who is behind it \u2013 another expat, \"with balls of steel\" \u2013 and she is in the process of making a denuncia (official complaint) about him to the local police, but her bags are packed. Such inter-expat feuds are not uncommon. She will miss Spain, which she made her home after her parents \u2013 her mother, Elaine, is a former town clerk of Belper \u2013 moved there. Her story \u2013 arriving full of enthusiasm but departing disillusioned \u2013 is not atypical.\"My parents wanted to live abroad,\" says Hibberd. \"They had wanted to go to France, but the Spanish tend to accept you more. I've met some people here who've reinvented themselves on the plane on the way out \u2013 they've suddenly become builders or skilled technicians when they were bin-men back in England. Here, British people tend to stick with other British people and you end up in a clique \u2013 but that's the worst thing you can do. I have had people say that they meet hostility because they are English, but that tends to be people who don't integrate. And people don't realise that things are not cheaper here,\" she says. \"Unless you're an alcoholic smoker,\" her partner, Darren, chips in with a smile. Among her clients are others who had hoped to make a go of it, she said, but have called in to say they can no longer pay the rent and are returning to England.But if there are committed stayers and unhappy goers, there is a third category: those who would like to return to the UK but cannot do so.Jo Hamilton, a local government worker from Manchester, bored by her job, decided in 2006 that she and her partner would \"live the dream\" in a place called Los Altos, not far from Orihuela Costa. Housing rip-offs, burglaries, unhelpful police, isolation, problems with other expats and the end of her relationship made it a hellish experience.\"Deep down I was becoming convinced that Spain was full of expats putting on a brave face and accepting the folly of their decision\u2026 with the usual British stiff upper lip,\" she writes in her cautionary tale, A Place in the Currant Bun. \"There is no getting away from the fact that there are many unhappy people stuck in Spain who would love to go home but who are unable to owing to lack of available finances. There must be millions of euros tied up in unloved and unwanted Spanish properties.\"Paul Rodwell, a tall, genial, multilingual young man, whose previous career was as a hotelier in Chile, Morocco and France ( you can imagine him effortlessly soothing newly arrived guests) is the British consul in Alicante, one of the world's busiest consulates. Almost a third of all Britons in Spain live in this region and last year the consulate dealt with 507 detentions (number one in the world) and helped 460 bereaved families (number two). He has noticed how the economic crisis has affected some expats.\"A lot of our people here are pensioners and they were faced, three or four years ago, with the fall in the value of the pound, so they saw the reduction of their pensions by 20 to 30%,\" says Rodwell, sitting in his office in a square of palm trees and coffee bars not too far from the seafront. The exact number of Britons in Spain is unclear since some people live only part of the year there and many full-timers have not registered with the padron \u2013 the municipal register which allows foreigners to vote and stand in local elections. Rodwell is quite evangelical about getting people on the padron, both as a way of them integrating better and to give the Spanish authorities a more accurate picture of how many there are.\"There is no statistical evidence of people returning home,\" says Rodwell, who has just been taking part in a Channel 4 documentary about life at the consulate, and could thus be a television star when it is broadcast in the spring. \"There have been incidences of people handing over the keys to the house to the bank, which is often the worst thing you can do as they can come after you. Broadly speaking, the Brits are seen as a pretty good bunch, and they contribute a\u00a0lot to the economy. The vast majority of them are enjoying life. People do really pursue the dream and it's admirable that they have that get up and go, but if they don't do their homework, it can be a nightmare. It's not easy at 40 or 50 to learn Spanish and it's even harder at 60 or 70.\"One of his jobs is trying to help people who have been involved in housing scams or disasters, which are legion. \"It has a big impact, a horrific situation for some people. There are heart attacks from the stress and we have had some people who are literally homeless.\" A third of the expat arrests he has to deal with are for domestic violence. \"The incidence has increased, which could be a manifestation that people are under stress at home perhaps, with the money not coming in.\" Amazingly, around a third of those arrested assumed that they would be dealt with by British rather than Spanish law.One of the problems, he says, is that some expats can drift into life in Spain without thinking too much about it. \"People talk about 'emigrating' to Australia or Canada, but they sometimes don't see moving to Spain in quite the same way. They don't realise that they are cutting ties and they will have to deal with insurance and mortgages and money in a foreign language. They think it will all be eating al fresco and fresh fish, but that can wear off pretty quickly.\"Spain is in the midst of its own economic catastrophe and its new government will soon be delivering harsh austerity measures to a\u00a0country already with 20% unemployment. Whether Britons stay or go is the least of their concerns. But, for expats who came for the sun, those chill economic winds mean that the crunch has come. Those expats who are not checking out return flights tend to fall into two categories: those who have come as traditional migrants, young families seeking a different life and \u2013 the majority \u2013 those who retired to the sun. In the first category are Emma and Alan Lawton and their 13-year-old daughter, Molly, from St Helens, who are now in their sixth year in Spain. They have their own house in Javea and run a successful excavation and demolition business.\"This is home now,\" says Emma, sitting outside their home beside the swimming pool and the orange tree. \"The quality of life is better. We are together more as a family and we have a wider variety of friends \u2013 Spanish, German, Swiss, all nationalities. We drink in local Spanish bars, although the first time we went in it was like a scene from a western \u2013 silence, everyone looking round. We were a bit of a novelty, trying to crack a market that was local. We got a frosty reception at first and we have had days when we thought about packing it in, but it's never been more than days and, to be honest, I've had more days like that in England. Here, it is more relaxed, it's no pasa nada [don't worry], but it's hard work and it's not all sunbathing and going out drinking.\"She says that the expats who have problems were ones who make little effort. \"If you go into a builder's merchants and the first thing you say is, 'Do you speak English?' then the barriers go up. Some people arrive with rose-tinted glasses and maybe not much Spanish apart from 'ola' and 'por favor',\" says Emma, who also spoke no Spanish when she arrived but now takes part in a project called hablemos, run by the local town hall, to help people integrate better; groups of around 15 or 16 people, half Spanish-, half English-speaking meet weekly to talk in each other's languages.Alan, who has just been accepted as a local volunteer bombero (firefighter), is also happy they made the jump. \"I've never broken a mobile phone out here and in England it would be one a month thrown at the wall,\" he says, referring to how stressful he found life back home. \"But the English have a bad name here. You get people who move out here and put their brains in storage at Alicante airport. They buy a Mercedes convertible and go out five or six nights a week, and a year later the bank has got their house and they've gone back to Britain. And we know of some people who've taken money for a\u00a0job and then gone back to England without doing it. It's a totally different way of life from England \u2013 you don't look at the local news on TV and think, 'Flipping heck, we'd better put some extra locks on the doors.'\"So are they here for the long haul?\"Whether we stay for ever is a difficult question,\" says Emma. \"If the economy improves we could be here for ever. What annoys me about the coverage of Spain in the British media \u2013 all those 'homes from hell' \u2013 is that it's not just in Spain people have these problems, it's happening everywhere.\"While Emma and Alan represent the new wave of expat, George and Pauline Stevenson are part of the large number of retired Britons on the Costas. George was the Labour MP for Stoke-on-Trent until 2005 and previously the MEP for Staffordshire East. At their home in Benitachell, there is Antony Beevor's history of the Spanish civil war on the table and photos at hand of the Stevensons with Barbara Castle and Michael Foot. When George retired from politics, they decided that they wanted, in Pauline's words, \"a new beginning\" in Spain. \"We didn't want to descend into our dotage,\" says George. \"We wanted to go to a country we had never lived in. When we moved here in 2005, the exchange rate was \u20ac1.70 to the \u00a31 and since then it's been down below \u20ac1.10. The first bombshell to hit the expats, many of whom depend on their pensions, was a damn near 30% reduction in the value of their pound. For people who arrived before that \u2013 they thought it would go on like that for ever.\"\"There are two kinds of expats,\" says Pauline, \"and there is a very clear distinction between them: there are the retired ones \u2013 they'd been teachers or local government workers, doctors \u2013 and they had come intending to stay because they'd had holidays here and liked it. But they also keep a place in the UK so that they can use the health service \u2013 get their prescription pills and have their knee done. And there are the others. They come to work and they might have got a job and it went pear-shaped. They're like the birds in the summer \u2013 they fly off and then come back again. But I think the Spanish are wonderful. I shall die here.\"There is no shortage, however, of the disgruntled Englishman abroad. The Daily Mail, that barometer of British peevishness, is the best-selling paper on the Spanish coast. Many of the seven expat English-language weekly newspapers carry regular baleful columns about the hellishness of life in \"multicultural, politically correct, health-and-safety\" Britain, complete with apocryphal stories of queue-jumping asylum-seekers, while simultaneously reminding readers of the many perils of being an expat. Some of the five expat radio stations carry the same gloomy conversations.The Euro Weekly News's resident columnist, Leapy Lee, who had a hit record with \"Little Arrows\" in 1968 but whose career took a tumble after he was jailed over a fracas involving a bloody pub brawl in the company of the late Alan Lake, husband of Diana Dors, is one example. In October, Leapy, who lives in Mallorca, told his readers that the BNP is now \"the only party spouting a bit of common sense\". Not a few expats talk, completely without irony, of how Britain has been ruined by immigrants who don't bother to learn the language.The Costa boom is over. The empty houses and urbanisations carry ever-reducing price-tags. For those expats battered by the economic storms when all they sought was a little quiet sun the choices are stark: stay and make the best of it \u2013 al-fresco eating and fresh fish included \u2013 or head home to an uncertain future in a land that now looks rather less kindly on new arrivals.", "tags": ["Spain", "Property", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Europe", "World news", "Money", "Expat finance"], "title": "Economic crisis: The pain in Spain"},{"date": "2011-10-10T17:15:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alarm bells are being rung over Spain's ability to hit its public deficit target this year without taking further dramatic steps to raise extra income or cut spending.Figures released last week by the national statistics institute (INE) show that the deficit level remained virtually unchanged during the first half of this year, according to one of the country's leading analysts.Angel Laborda, of the savings banks federation Funcas, said the figures on the overall borrowing needs of Spain's public administration meant the chances of bringing the deficit down from 9% to 6% this year were slim.The deficit could now head for between 7.5 and 8%of GDP \u2013 well off the target agreed by the socialist government of prime minister Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero and the European Union and much worse than previous analysts' estimates.\"Most of the year has already gone so I think it is impossible to meet 6%,\" Laborda said. \"I'd say it will be closer to 8%.\"He blamed the problem on the regional governments, who account for a third of public spending. Many had only seriously begun to cut spending after May elections, he said. Lower-than-expected growth was also a handicap.Separate figures show that central government has brought down its part of the deficit, suggesting that regional governments may have actually grown their deficits during the first half of the year, he said.The Zapatero government has staked its credibility in the markets on hitting deficit targets. The fact that it met last year's target, together with Spain's relatively low overall national debt, helps to explain why bond yields have been lower than neighbouring Italy's.Finance minister Elena Salgado has repeatedly vowed to meet this year's 6% target. The socialist government, which is set to be replaced by the conservative People's Party (PP) at a general election on 20 November, has said it will introduce new measures if it has to.\"Our objective of a 6% deficit at year's end will not be given up on,\" a finance ministry spokesman reaffirmed. \"We have said many times that we will do whatever it takes to meet that.\"The PP has also pledged to meet deficit targets. The spokesman blamed a change in INE's metholodogy for Laborda's calculations. Laborda denied that there was a problem, saying INE had also presented its data on previous years using the new methodology.The average predicted deficit figure from 18 of Spain's top analysts prior to last week's figures was 6.5% for 2011.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Business", "European banks", "Jos\u00e9 Luis Zapatero", "Euro", "Spain", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Spain unlikely to meet deficit target"},{"date": "2011-12-30T18:22:08Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Spain's new government said on Friday that the country's budget deficit is higher than previously thought as it announced a new package of spending cuts and tax increases designed to conform to the eurozone's austerity pact and fend off attack by international financial markets.\"We are forced to take extraordinary decisions and adopt unexpected measures,\" the Spanish vice-president Soraya S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said as the new government opened the first chapter of what looks like being a long tale of austerity. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the measures were necessary because the public deficit is running at 8%, not the 6% they were led to believe by the outgoing administration, a difference of about \u20ac20bn (\u00a317bn).The principal measure comes in the form of an \u20ac8.9bn budget cut spread across all government departments. There are also across-the-board income tax increases and for home-owners, a one-year freeze on public sector salaries, a freeze on the minimum wage of \u20ac641.40 a month and cuts in subsidies to trade unions and political parties. Pensions, as promised, will rise by 1% next month, and the cut-off point for unemployment benefit is to be extended for a further six months.\"These measures are the beginning of the beginning of a package of structural reforms designed to cut the deficit and stimulate the economy,\" S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said. Financial and employment law reform are being held back until later in January. It is rumoured that Mariano Rajoy's government may delay the really unpopular measures until the end of March, after the regional elections in Andalusia which his Partido Popular hopes to win for the first time in its history. The full budget, designed to meet Rajoy's target of \u20ac16.5bn in cuts, will not be presented to parliament until 31 March.As well as freezing public sector wages, Spanish civil servants will find their working week extended from 35 to 37.5 hours. Vacancies will not be filled except in health, education, state security and the armed forces for an unspecified time. Cuts in subsidies to political parties are expected to save \u20ac29.7m while the reduction in trade union and other representative bodies' funding will save \u20ac55m.Income tax on salaries of \u20ac9,500 will rise 0.75% and by up to 7% on incomes above \u20ac300,000. Property tax, roughly equivalent to the UK council tax, is also going up on all properties that are \"above average value,\" which in reality means 50% of urban property. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda said the increases, which \"are temporary and only for the next two years,\" would raise \u20ac6.2bn. Rajoy's party enjoys an absolute majority so it can be taken as given that these measures will become law.Rajoy, who won the election without promising anything at all, still seems to be holding back on deep reform. The cuts are more slash and burn than structural and the government is still ducking the issue of employment reform. Spain's employment laws have created a two-tier system of virtually unsackable employees with cast-iron contracts \u2013 doggedly defended by the trade unions \u2013 and a much larger group of workers with no job security. Employers are reluctant to offer full-time contracts because of the cost of making people redundant. Rajoy was not present at the press conference. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda was accompanied by Luis de Guindos, the finance minister; Crist\u00f3bal Montoro the inland revenue minister and F\u00e1tima B\u00e1\u00f1ez, employment.No ministry escapes unscathed, with budget cuts of \u20ac485m at employment, \u20ac439m at the inland revenue, \u20ac409m at the health ministry, \u20ac401m at agriculture, \u20ac340m at defence, \u20ac163m at the interior ministry and \u20ac48m at the justice department. However, the biggest cuts are reserved for the ministry of works, \u20ac1.6bn, and 1bn each for the foreign, industry and finance ministries.Amid all the austerity, there were no measures that appeared to be designed to boost productivity or dent Spain's crippling 23% unemployment rate. Indeed, the spending cuts seem certain to lead to job losses. S\u00e1enz de Santamar\u00eda, who gave birth to her first child six weeks ago, also announced the suspension of plans to extend paternity leave to one month until 2013.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Spain makes \u20ac9bn budget cuts to cover rising deficit"},{"date": "2011-12-26T18:11:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain's new economy minister warned on Monday that the fragile economy was slipping back into recession \u2013 barely two years after climbing out of its last economic downturn.Luis de Guindos, economy minister in the new conservative Popular Party government led by Mariano Rajoy, conceded that he expected the economy to contract up to 0.3% in the final three months of 2011 and again in the first quarter of the new year. Technically, a recession is two consecutive quarters of negative growth.Spain last pulled out of recession at the start of 2010 but is still trying to tackle the highest rate of joblessness in the eurozone of 21.5%.Its new government is committed to curbing the budget deficit by \u20ac16.5bn (\u00a314bn) in 2012 through sweeping cuts and is expected to try to clean up banks that have been battered by loans to property companies and exposure to troubled countries in the eurozone. \"This quarter the Spanish economy will surely see a downturn and we will return to negative growth,\" de Guindos told a news conference.\"Let nobody be fooled, the next two quarters are not going to be easy either in terms of growth or employment,\" he was quoted as saying by the Associated Press.Spain is trying to reassure markets that it can curb its deficit to avoid being punished by investors anxious about the future of the 17 nation European single currency. Just before the Christmas holiday, the yield on 10-year bonds \u2013 which reflects the real cost of borrowing for governments \u2013 increased two basis points to 5.41% before a 7 January deadline for employers and unions to come up with a labour reform agreement demanded by the government.While markets will seize upon de Guindos' remarks as signalling a new recession, the warning signs have been apparent for some time. After showing growth in the first half of 2011, by the third quarter the economy was registering zero growth amid fears of a break up of the eurozone and economists had begun to issue forecasts of negative growth for the remainder of the year.Since being elected last month, Rajoy has been calling on Spaniards to work together to try to overcome the debt crisis and to tackle unemployment which is more than double the average in the EU. He forced out the socialist government of Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero who was criticised for being too slow to respond to the economic crisis that gripped the country in 2009.The incoming government is scheduled to unveil its economic measures on Friday.After a rush by eurozone banks to take up cheap European Central Bank loans last week highlighted the precarious state of the region's financial system, the head of German industrial conglomerate Siemens joined the chorus of voices warning of a credit crunch.Siemens chief executive Peter Loescher told German newspaper Der Tagesspiegel: \"One danger is evident, namely that of a credit crunch. The European Central Bank, however, has just shown again that it is very vigilant in that respect and also able to act.\"The ECB's first ever offer of three-year loans was snapped up to the tune of half a trillion euros but some market analysts said it would do little to solve the eurozone's fundamental debt problems.Loescher argued, however, that the economy was in better state than many believed.\"The real economy is in a more robust shape than the headlines from the financial world would make us believe,\" he said.  ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Central Bank", "Economics", "Euro", "Europe", "Business", "Spain"], "title": "Spain faces more pain before economy recovers, warns minister"},{"date": "2011-12-30T17:32:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "5.15pm: It's time to wrap the live blog up for the day, and for 2011 as a whole. Many thanks for reading, and commenting -- especially all those heroes and villains nominations today.I will be back next week to cover the latest developments in the eurocrisis. Until then, very best wishes for 2012. Good night!4.55pm: Stephen Burgen, our man in Barcelona, has more details of the \u20ac6bn of tax rises and nearly \u20ac9bn of spending cuts announced in Spain today.There are across-the-board income tax increases and for home-owners, a one-year freeze on public employee salaries, a freeze on the minimum wage of \u20ac641,40 and cuts in subsidies to trade unions and political parties. Pensions, as promised, will rise by 1% next month, and the cut-off point for unemployment benefit is to be extended for a further six months. In addition, the public sector working week is to be extended from 35 to 37.5 hours and public sector vacancies won't be filled except in health, education, state security and the armed forces for an unspecified time.Cuts in subsidies to political parties are expected to save \u20ac29m while the reduction in trade union and other representative bodies' funding will save \u20ac55m.We also have details of the \"progressive\" income tax rises. It will mean a 0.75% increase on salaries of \u20ac9,500, rising to a maximum increase of 7% on incomes above \u20ac300,000. Property tax, roughly equivalent to the English council tax, is also going up on all properties that are \"above average value\".Among smaller changes, a plan to allow new fathers to take up to one month's paternity leave has been delayed until 2013. Stephen argues that the reforms suggest new PM Mariano Rajoy is delaying making deep reforms to Spain until next year:The cuts announced are more slash and burn than structural and the government is still ducking the issue of employment reform. No Spanish government ministry escaped unscathed. The biggest cuts are reserved for the ministry of works, which must save \u20ac1.6bn, while the foreign, industry and finance ministries must each save \u20ac1bn.There are also budget cuts of \u20ac485m at employment, \u20ac439m at the inland revenue, \u20ac409m at the health ministry, \u20ac401m at agriculture, \u20ac340m at defence, \u20ac163m at the interior ministry and \u20ac48m at the justice department.4.39pm: Europe's stock markets have closed for the final time this year, and many have registered hefty losses in 2011.The German Dax has fallen 15% this year, while France's Cac lost 17.8%, with financial stocks suffering particularly badly.Across Europe, bank shares fall by 33.8% - that's measured by the Stoxx Europe 600 Banking Index.As reported at 12.39pm, the FTSE 100 has shed 329 points, or 5.5%, this year (the London stock market enjoyed a festive half-day session).4.05pm: Nominations for heroes and villains of 2011 continue to come in -- so please all accept my thanks.ArseneKnows names the media as villains of the year, for:almost without exception, supporting policies that see up to 50% of young people in European countries unemployed.Many of my colleagues have written about the UK's youth unemployment crisis, but it's undoubtedly an issue that needs even more attention (especially now that younger adults have become the biggest users of an insolvency procedure called debt relief orders [DROs])nocolours argues that I've asked the question at the wrong time, writing that:There are no heroes, just some work in progress.Villains, well they are the lot from 2008 and before. How could you be a villain in 2011 when the train crash had already happened. Euroleaders, strictly those in the blessed EMU, have made a valiant attempt though.jmurphyc's hero was \"The private sector. For picking up the slack.\". Kickinthenads made the similar point, saying \"Heroes? Easy: small business owners.\"On Twitter, Yrotitna suggests:@yrotitna Villains: all the ratings agencies for playing silly games, David Cameron for infantile behaviour, George no plan B Osborneand@yrotitna Heroes: Los indignados in Spain, everyone at Occupy LSXGuardian reader doctorzoidberg also praised the Occupy movement for \"bearing witness to the theft and falsehoods visited on western populations by crony capitalists, and for creating a platform for the debate about how to change.\"Coolhandluke77, though, put Occupy in the Villains' camp.(if you're just joining us, you can see earlier round-up's here and here, and a typically lively debate in the reader comments).3.29pm: The office of Italy's president, Giorgio Napolitano, has officially responded to claims that German chancellor Angela Merkel told Napolitano in October that Silvio Berlusconi should be eased out of office (see 1.07pm for full details)They confirmed that the telephone call had taken place, on October 20, but denied the Wall Street Journal's claim that Merkel asked for Silvio Berlusconi's head.Our Rome correspondent John Hooper explains:Napolitano's office said the chancellor \"did not raise any domestic Italian political issue, let alone advance a request to change the prime minister. The only subjects of the conversation were the measures that had been, and were to be, taken for the reduction of the deficit, the defence of the euro and in the matter of structural reform.\"Well, the first part of the statement is clearly a denial. But it is more than a little undermined by the second part, which raises the question: what was Merkel, a head of government, doing ringing up a head of state to discuss in detail the economic policy of the Italian government? Was she also calling King Juan Carlos for a chat about how Zapatero was getting on with his spending cuts?Sarkozy and Obama are also heads of state, of course, but they are different because they have direct control of their respective governments. Napolitano's powers are largely ceremonial.But he does wield immense soft power and two rather important hard powers. He can dissolve parliament and choose the next prime minister.Though denied, I suspect the Journal's story will be widely believed in Italy. And it has put back centre-stage the issue of sovereignty, crucial to any discussion of the euroThe leader of Berlusconi's party in the Chamber of Deputies, Fabrizio Cicchitto, said that, independently of the truth or otherwise of what had been reported, it was clear Merkel and Sarkozy had an \"attitude of hostility\", not so much to Berlusconi as Italy \"in line with the divergent interests between the various nations that unfortunately characterise the situation in Europe today as they have in the past.\"But Cicchitto also detected a plot \u2013 by the Wall Street Journal. He said the article was designed to destabilise Europe \"given the clash of interests there is between the US and European [economic] areas and the hostility powerful American forces have always felt towards the euro.\"3.19pm: The tax rises and spending cuts announced today in Spain are being introduced as extensions to the 2011 budget (which was introduced by the previous administration, before it was ousted by Mariano Rajoy's right-wing Popular Party in November's elections).That means that the Spanish people face the prospect of more austerity measures being announced in just a few months, when the 2012 budget is drawn up. It is meant to be agreed by the end of March next year.3.05pm: The news that Spain missed its deficit target for 2011 has not caused much alarm in the financial markets. The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds is broadly flat this afternoonat 5.15%, compared with Italy's 7.05%.That's because Spain's national debt, at 66% of its economy, is rather less of a worry than Italy's 120% debt-to-GDP ratio. Spain's primary problems are its huge unemployment, and the slump in its property sector. It's not clear that either are addressed by today's cutbacks.2.27pm: Spain is aiming to raise at least \u20ac6bn next year through \"progressive\" taxes on its wealthiest citizens, treasury minister Cristobal Montoro declared. Full details of this plan weren't released, though.That's on top of the \u20ac8.9bn of public spending cuts planned for 2012 (see previous post) as prime minister Rajoy tries to bring Spain's deficit in line.Rajoy's deputy, Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, has explained that the cuts are essdential to reduct Spanish borrowing. She told reporters in Madrid that:We're facing an extraordinary and unexpected situation, forcing us to take extraordinary and unexpected measures.1.53pm: The Spanish government has revealed details of prime minister Mariano Rajoy's austerity measures. The first important development is that Spain's 2011 budget deficit will come in at 8% of GDP, not 6% as previously forecast.It has also been confirmed that public sector wages will be frozen, along with plans to raise taxes for top earners \"over the next two years\".Update:Spain plans to cut \u20ac8.9bn from public spending in 2012, across all government ministries. That suggests that the burden of Rajoy's deficit reduction plans will be spread broadly evenly between spending cuts and tax rises, but with more emphasis on the cuts (Spain was aiming to save around \u20ac16.5bn next year)1.36pm: Hungary continues to defy the International Monetary Fund \u2013 earlier today its parliament passed a controversial law that will give the Budapest government more control of the country's central bank.The vote means that prime minister Viktor Orban will be able to appoint more officials to central bank's monetary policy committee, potentially giving him significant control of interest rate policy.The move is a worry because the IMF has indicated that it is unwilling to accept Hungary's request for more financial support unless Orban changed course.1.07pm: There's a fascinating tale in the Wall Street Journal today, about how Angela Merkel helped to push Silvio Berlusconi out of power.The WSJ reports that European leaders grew increasingly exasperated with the Italian prime minister through this summer and autumn as he failed to grasp the scale of the financaial crisis. Finally, on \"a chilly October evening\", chancellor Merkel telephoned Italian president Giorgio Napolitano, to warn that the selloff in Italian debt threatened to crush Italy, and the eurozone with it.As the WSJ explains:Her phone call that night to the 16th-century Quirinale Palace, once a residence of popes, now home to Italy's octogenarian head of state, President Giorgio Napolitano, trod on delicate ground for a German chancellor. Europe's leaders have an unwritten rule not to intervene in one another's domestic politics. But Ms Merkel was gently prodding Italy to change its prime minister, if the incumbent \u2013 Silvio Berlusconi \u2013 couldn't change Italy.A month later, Berlusconi was gone, after Italian bond yields shot above 7% and his parliamentary majority shrivelled away. Among other gems, the article also reveals that Merkel repaired her relations with France's Nicolas Sarkozy by giving him a teddy bear (for his new baby), and that Spanish finance minister Elena Salgado won a bottle of fine wine from her German counterpart, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, after betting that Greece would not hold a referendum over its membership of the euro.You can read all six parts of the Journal's History Of The Euro Crisis, which began in September 2010, here.12.39pm: The FTSE 100 just closed for 2011 at 5572 points (up 5 points on the half-day).That's a fall at 327 points for 2011, meaning the blue-chip index is worth roughly \u00a385bn less than a year ago.As my colleague Nick Fletcher points out here:The decline accelerated during the summer as the scale of the eurozone's problems became apparent, with Italy and Spain following Greece onto the sick list and politicians seemingly unable to come to an agreement on how to tackle the situation.After touching 6105 in February, the index reached its nadir of 4791 in August, before recovering some ground on optimism a solution could be reached.11.43am: Our list of eurocrisis heroes and villians grows longer \u2026Below the line, ohjesusmygoodness pins the villain badge on the Financial Times, the Wall Street Journal and the hedge funds industry for acting as prophets of doom during the crisis*batman11 harks back to Alan Greenspan, the former head of the Federal Reserve, for sowing the seeds of the crisis:He did a lot of the groundwork, convincing the west of the need for unfettered and unregulated financial markets. His influence helped repeal the laws that had stopped an earlier repeat of the 1930s depression. He also developed the interest rate mechanism for controlling an economy; previously directly targeted aid had been given in times of trouble. Low interest rates could be sold as a way of helping the economy, while keeping his KGB agents awash with cash for their destructive endeavours against the west. Bernanke is just a puppet who was groomed by Greenspan to take over his role.Addicks123 isn't convinced that George Osborne deserves hero status (as suggested by BankingIsMyDayJob), arguing that:Osborne has failed to grasp that austerity doesn't work \u2013 well maybe it does, but not when you want to simultaneously achieve growth. This is as stupid as trying to gain weight by starving yourself. It didn't work in the 1930s when Hoover tried it, it failed in the 1980s when Thatcher tried it and as with the 1980s we are dealing with the same consequences \u2013 declining living standards, social unrest and youth unemployment.And on Twitter, Kieran Dunne 11 suggests:@KieranDunne11 villains of 2011 were, and will continue to be, the Franco-German banks. Hero, well, was there one?AussieAnalyst has two ideas:\u2022 The Greek People, for standing firm for their democratic principles and rights and in the face of deep and cutting austerity measures.\u2022 The UK government for standing up for the UK and her people by not succumbing to the enormous pressures placed on it in joining the latest EZ Debt Crisis Proposal.Many thanks for all the suggestions so far (and there's still time to include more).*Some might put live blogging in this category too, but in all honesty we're just trying to keep up with the crisis rather than inflame it \u202611.06am: While much of Spain is on holiday, its new prime minister is currently holding a cabinet meeting to approve the first stage of his austerity programme.Mariano Rajoy, who won power in a general election last month, is expected to announce billions of euros of savings \u2013 through spending cuts and economic reforms. The plan will be designed to reassure the financial markets that Spain can get its finances in order.But with the unemployment rate above 20% (and youth unemployment around 40%), Rajoy faces a terribly difficult challenge. He said last week that at least \u20ac16.5bn needs to be cut from government spending in 2012.The austerity plan will include a public sector pay and recruitment freeze, and a small cost of living increase for pensioners. The sitation is complicated because Spain's 17 autonomous regions will not report their own budget balances until next spring \u2013 thus, the exact state of Spain's public accounts is unknown.10.50am: IHS Global Insight released their forecasts for 2012 this morning. Here's a few predictions:\u2022 Eurozone GDP to contract by around 0.7% overall in 2012, with declines in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first half of 2012 followed by only gradual recovery.\u2022 We expect the ECB to respond to the likely eurozone GDP contraction in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the early months of 2012 by cutting interest rates further.\u2022 Eurozone consumer price inflation still seems poised to imminently embark on a sustained downward trend that takes it below 2.0% by mid-2012 as weakened economic activity and high and rising unemployment reduces underlying price pressures and base effects become increasingly favourable due to the waning impact of the sharp increases in oil and commodity prices in late-2010/early-2011.And what might 2012 have in store for the pound? IHS's Howard Archer says it may all depend on which currency looks like \"the best looking horse in the glue factory\".If eurozone sovereign debt turmoil continues or worsens, the pound is likely to firm further. However, if there a dilution of concern over the eurozone, then sterling is likely to come under increased downward pressure from a greater focus on the poor UK economic fundamentals. Not that the economic fundamentals for the eurozone or the US are that great.10.25am: The euro is ending the year with another unwelcome milestone \u2013 it just hit a record low against the Australian dollar (\u20ac1=AUS$1.2718)Against the US dollar, the euro is bobbing around $1.293, having hit a 15-month low yesterday.The City consensus is that the euro will fall in value in 2012, having been surprisingly robust in 2011 (a year ago, one euro was worth $1.33).Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers, told CNBC that Europe's troubled banking sector will weigh heavily on the euro in 2012.It's a very thin market, but people are preparing for the worst next year.Update: the euro also hit a new ten-year low against the Japanese yen today.10.15am: A date for the diary \u2013 France is planning to sell \u20ac7bn-\u20ac8bn of government debt on 5 January 2012. That will be a significant test of market confidence in Europe's second-largest economy, which is proudly ending the year with its AAA-rating intact.Next week will see plenty of action in the sovereign debt market \u2013 with Britain planning to sell \u00a33.75bn of five-year gilts on 4 January and Germany auctioning \u20ac5bn-worth of bunds on the same day.9.51am: We're already getting some great suggestions for euro crisis heroes and villains of the year.In the reader comments below, BankingIsMyDayJob awards hero status to George Osborne, Mario Draghi, Giulio Tremonti, Mervyn King and Ireland.In the villains' corner, BankingIsMyDayJob put Angela Merkel, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, Olli Rehn, John-Claude Trichet, and Greece.andrewtc suggests a third category, \"zero of the year\". Namely \"Ed Milliband who absolutely failed to say anything sensible or decisive or provide any alternative throughout the whole year\".Allebert puts Silvio Berlusconi among the villains:He is a joke \u2013 can't take anything seriously \u2013 he represents, however, a pretty good picture of why Italy is going \"business failure\" \u2013 I'm thinking of all the sex scandals and his broadcasting company which he did not sell. He is a complete moron!On twitter, @jollyenglishman also suggests Italy's departed prime minister, but reckons he's not all bad.@jollyenglishman Silvio Berlusconi is surely the greatest hero and villain of the #Eurocrisis. A perfect blend of politics and pantomime.\"Hero\" may be slightly pushing it for the King of Bunga Bunga, but he certainly provided some light relief in a dark year \u20269.20am: European stock markets aren't alone in suffering this year. In Japan, the Nikkei index closed at its lowest end-of-year level since 1982.The Nikkei fell by 17% during 2011. Not all due to the eurozone crisis \u2013 March's devastating earthquake and tsunami drove share prices lower, with the nation's manufacturing base badly affected by the disaster.9.12am: Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, Germany's finance minister (and potential candidate for eurozone hero/villain of the year) is in defiant voice today, ruling out a break-up of the eurozone in 2012.In an interview with German newspaper Handelsblatt, Sch\u00e4uble declared that the fate of many nations was bound together by the euro, therefore:The leaders of the eurozone will do everything possible to prevent it from falling apart.To achieve this, Sch\u00e4uble said, it is essential for eurozone members to follow through on their pledge to pump \u20ac80bn of fresh capital into the European Stability Mechanism:The sooner we have the \u20ac80 euro capital injection together, the better \u2026 It would be the strongest signal that the member countries of the eurozone to their common currency are, under all circumstances.He also pledged that Germany will not be \"the brakeman on this issue\" \u2013 other countries must pay their share.Sch\u00e4uble was dubbed \"the most dangerous man in the world\" by the Daily Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, for his insistance that troubled eurozone countries should undergo sharp fiscal cutbacks. But Sch\u00e4uble's determination that Germany should not shoulder the full bill for fixing the euro crisis has also been applauded back home.8.54am: UK gilt yields just hit a new record low. In quiet trading, the interest rate on Britain's 10-year government bonds slipped as low as 1.932%.US and German 10-year bonds are trading at even lower yields than gilts, though \u2013 at 1.90% and 1.84% respectively. Italy's yields remain above 7% (all data via Tradeweb).Yields move in inverse proportion to the price of a bond, so low yields indicate that investors are placing a high premium on UK debt (although the rush into safer government bonds also reflects fears of sluggish economic growth, as Larry Elliott explains here).George Osborne has regularly cited Britain's low borrowing costs as proof that his fiscal consolidation plan is justified. David Miller, partner at Cheviot Asset Management, argues that the chancellor is right, saying that:Overall market movements this year have shown Britain to be a beacon of sanity in Europe. We have a stable government with a plan to reduce the deficit, an empowered central bank, and a floating currency. This is not a bad combination for surviving difficult times.8.41am: 2011 has been a bad year for Europe's stock markets. Trading has begun, and the FTSE 100 is limping towards a hefty loss for the year. It's currently down 25 points at 5541. The French and German markets are also slightly lower.London's blue-chip index has fallen by around 6% this year, having ended 2010 at 5899 points. Most of the damage was done in August, when shares tumbled as the true extent of the eurozone crisis became clear.So what can we look forward to in 2012? More volatility appears to be the consensus. Beyond that, some tipsters are remarkable coy. As stock market historian David Schwartz puts it in the Sun today:It could go up by 1,000 points, it could go down by 1,000 points. The problem is Europe. They are screw-ups, big time, and they have been blundering and muddling for a year. There are a lot of reasons to expect them to continue to do so. 8.30am: Good morning, and welcome to another day of rolling coverage of the European financial crisis. Our last one of the year, alas.As usual, we'll be tracking the latest action in the eurozone crisis \u2013 with Spain due to announce austerity measures. And as it's the last trading session of 2011, we'll be looking back at the last 12 months and gathering together predictions for 2012.We'd also like your help, please. Who were your heroes and villains of 2011? Which groups or individuals should be praised for their role in the eurozone crisis, and who should be castigated? And why?It may be a quieter day \u2013 there's little economic news on the calendar, and no gripping corporate news. But we'll do our best \u2026", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Euro", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector"], "title": "Eurozone crisis: Spain announces tax rises after missing deficit target"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-02-10T15:59:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "While debate continues to rage in the UK about bonuses, and bank bosses defend their payouts, their counterparts in Spain are taking a rather more pragmatic and popular approachRodrigo Rato's position as a former boss of the International Monetary Fund and now one of Spain's senior bankers would normally put him among Europe's highest-paid financiers. But then his bank took money from the taxpayer so Rato has agreed to have his executive chairman's salary at the Bankia group slashed by three-quarters. His \u20ac2.34m (\u00a31.95m) package will be cut to \u20ac600,000.The cut has been ordered by the new conservative People's party government of Mariano Rajoy, which is clamping down on pay to bankers who have had to seek help from the state.\"Naturally, I will obey,\" said Rato, who heads Spain's third-biggest lender.Bankia's number two, Francisco Verd\u00fa, will also see his salary reduced to \u20ac600,000 from \u20ac2.2m. Non-executive directors will be limited to \u20ac100,000.\"Bankia and all of us who work in it will, of course, comply with any government decision,\" said Rato, who is also a former PP finance minister.Where the Spanish government has nationalised or part-nationalised a bank \u2013 as happened with Britain's Lloyds TSB or the Royal Bank of Scotland \u2013 the salary cuts are even greater. The upper limit for these banks is \u20ac300,000, with non-executive directors capped at \u20ac50,000.That will be a blow to Adolf Tod\u00f3, head of the CatalunyaCaixa savings bank, and Jordi Mestre of Unnim. Their wages are \u20ac1.55m and \u20ac960,000 respectively.The measures announced by the finance minister, Luis de Guindos, will hurt a handful of senior bankers, but have been widely approved of by Spaniards.\"We are asking society as a whole for sacrifices and those of us who have most should set an example,\" De Guindos, former banker who once worked for Rato, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper.Bankia received a \u20ac4.5bn loan from the Spanish government's FROB bank restructuring fund, which has been used to support consolidation and part-nationalisation of banks.CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim were both nationalised as they sank under the weight of toxic property loans.The salary measure was part of a fresh round of banking reform earlier this month when De Guindos ordered Spanish banks to put aside some \u20ac50bn for bad loans and write-downs on toxic real estate. This will bring further consolidation and more use of FROB money.The fact that the measure was passed by De Guindos rather than his socialist predecessor, Elena Salgado, has raised eyebrows. Spain's leading political blogger, Ignacio Escolar, said: \"She made a feint at capping these salaries but her plans never came to fruition.\"He noted that the head of a bank rescued by taxpayers would still earn 10 times the average wage. \"In one year they will earn as much as someone on the minimum wage will get in their life, if they work for 33 years.\"Rajoy has also raised income tax, especially for higher earners, and come out in support of the financial transactions tax introduced by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He took over the reins of government in December from Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialists.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Business", "Mariano Rajoy", "Bankia"], "title": "Spain cuts salaries of rescued bank bosses"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-02-10T15:59:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "While debate continues to rage in the UK about bonuses, and bank bosses defend their payouts, their counterparts in Spain are taking a rather more pragmatic and popular approachRodrigo Rato's position as a former boss of the International Monetary Fund and now one of Spain's senior bankers would normally put him among Europe's highest-paid financiers. But then his bank took money from the taxpayer so Rato has agreed to have his executive chairman's salary at the Bankia group slashed by three-quarters. His \u20ac2.34m (\u00a31.95m) package will be cut to \u20ac600,000.The cut has been ordered by the new conservative People's party government of Mariano Rajoy, which is clamping down on pay to bankers who have had to seek help from the state.\"Naturally, I will obey,\" said Rato, who heads Spain's third-biggest lender.Bankia's number two, Francisco Verd\u00fa, will also see his salary reduced to \u20ac600,000 from \u20ac2.2m. Non-executive directors will be limited to \u20ac100,000.\"Bankia and all of us who work in it will, of course, comply with any government decision,\" said Rato, who is also a former PP finance minister.Where the Spanish government has nationalised or part-nationalised a bank \u2013 as happened with Britain's Lloyds TSB or the Royal Bank of Scotland \u2013 the salary cuts are even greater. The upper limit for these banks is \u20ac300,000, with non-executive directors capped at \u20ac50,000.That will be a blow to Adolf Tod\u00f3, head of the CatalunyaCaixa savings bank, and Jordi Mestre of Unnim. Their wages are \u20ac1.55m and \u20ac960,000 respectively.The measures announced by the finance minister, Luis de Guindos, will hurt a handful of senior bankers, but have been widely approved of by Spaniards.\"We are asking society as a whole for sacrifices and those of us who have most should set an example,\" De Guindos, former banker who once worked for Rato, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper.Bankia received a \u20ac4.5bn loan from the Spanish government's FROB bank restructuring fund, which has been used to support consolidation and part-nationalisation of banks.CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim were both nationalised as they sank under the weight of toxic property loans.The salary measure was part of a fresh round of banking reform earlier this month when De Guindos ordered Spanish banks to put aside some \u20ac50bn for bad loans and write-downs on toxic real estate. This will bring further consolidation and more use of FROB money.The fact that the measure was passed by De Guindos rather than his socialist predecessor, Elena Salgado, has raised eyebrows. Spain's leading political blogger, Ignacio Escolar, said: \"She made a feint at capping these salaries but her plans never came to fruition.\"He noted that the head of a bank rescued by taxpayers would still earn 10 times the average wage. \"In one year they will earn as much as someone on the minimum wage will get in their life, if they work for 33 years.\"Rajoy has also raised income tax, especially for higher earners, and come out in support of the financial transactions tax introduced by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He took over the reins of government in December from Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialists.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Business", "Mariano Rajoy", "Bankia"], "title": "Spain cuts salaries of rescued bank bosses"},{"date": "2012-01-31T13:24:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Crusading Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n has told a court trying him for abuse of his powers that an investigation he opened into the deaths of 114,000 opponents of the Franco regime was based on the same principles used to order the arrest of Chile's Augusto Pinochet.The judge was giving evidence as he faced charges of deliberately abusing his powers in order to open a formal court investigation into human rights crimes committed by dictator General Francisco Franco's regime between 1936 and 1975.Garz\u00f3n, who had a brief and controversial parliamentary career as a Socialist MP, denied he was motivated by political ideology.He told a panel of supreme court judges he had simply been seeking the truth and looking after the rights of the victims and their families.\"There was no ideology in this, but there were thousands and thousands of victims whose rights had not been dealt with,\" he said.Garz\u00f3n faces being fined and struck off as an investigating magistrate for 20 years if he is found guilty in this trial, which is just one of three different cases against him going through the supreme court. He said his investigation into Francoist crimes was similar to those he carried out - backed by the Spanish courts - into human rights offences committed by Pinochet's dictatorship and Argentina's military juntas.Garz\u00f3n had Pinochet arrested in London in 1998 and the British courts accepted he could be extradited to Spain to face trial.Among other arguments used by Garz\u00f3n in the Pinochet case was that the crime of \"disappearance\" \u2014 when someone is taken away and never seen again \u2014 cannot be covered by amnesty laws as it is an ongoing crime of kidnapping that is still being committed today.He used this principle in the Franco case as the bodies of many of the victims, which are believed to lie in secret mass graves, have never been found.Garz\u00f3n also brought a successful prosecution against an Argentinian navy captain, Adolfo Scilingo, who was jailed by a Madrid court for throwing drugged prisoners out of aircraft into the sea.\"I based myself on the Scilingo case from Argentina when accepting this investigation [into Francoist crimes],\" he said on Tuesday.Garz\u00f3n said he had declined to open a separate investigation in the mass killing of thousands of prisoners of the leftwing republican government during the Spanish civil war because he did not think it was a matter for the national court to deal with.\"Garz\u00f3n showed today that his decision to take up the investigation of the crimes of the Franco era was fully supported by international law,\" said Reed Brody, an observer from Human Rights Watch. \" But the spectacle of a judge as a criminal defendant, having to justify his investigation into torture, killings and disappearances was itself an affront to principles of human rights and judicial independence.\"A dozen relatives of Franco's victims are to give evidence during the trial, which is expected to last for weeks and has drawn observers from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.Protests continued outside the courthouse on Tuesday, as victims, relatives and pro-Garz\u00f3n campaigners complained he had become the victim of a concerted campaign of persecution.", "tags": ["Baltasar Garz\u00f3n", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Francisco Franco", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Baltasar Garz\u00f3n trial opens in Spain"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-02-10T15:59:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "While debate continues to rage in the UK about bonuses, and bank bosses defend their payouts, their counterparts in Spain are taking a rather more pragmatic and popular approachRodrigo Rato's position as a former boss of the International Monetary Fund and now one of Spain's senior bankers would normally put him among Europe's highest-paid financiers. But then his bank took money from the taxpayer so Rato has agreed to have his executive chairman's salary at the Bankia group slashed by three-quarters. His \u20ac2.34m (\u00a31.95m) package will be cut to \u20ac600,000.The cut has been ordered by the new conservative People's party government of Mariano Rajoy, which is clamping down on pay to bankers who have had to seek help from the state.\"Naturally, I will obey,\" said Rato, who heads Spain's third-biggest lender.Bankia's number two, Francisco Verd\u00fa, will also see his salary reduced to \u20ac600,000 from \u20ac2.2m. Non-executive directors will be limited to \u20ac100,000.\"Bankia and all of us who work in it will, of course, comply with any government decision,\" said Rato, who is also a former PP finance minister.Where the Spanish government has nationalised or part-nationalised a bank \u2013 as happened with Britain's Lloyds TSB or the Royal Bank of Scotland \u2013 the salary cuts are even greater. The upper limit for these banks is \u20ac300,000, with non-executive directors capped at \u20ac50,000.That will be a blow to Adolf Tod\u00f3, head of the CatalunyaCaixa savings bank, and Jordi Mestre of Unnim. Their wages are \u20ac1.55m and \u20ac960,000 respectively.The measures announced by the finance minister, Luis de Guindos, will hurt a handful of senior bankers, but have been widely approved of by Spaniards.\"We are asking society as a whole for sacrifices and those of us who have most should set an example,\" De Guindos, former banker who once worked for Rato, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper.Bankia received a \u20ac4.5bn loan from the Spanish government's FROB bank restructuring fund, which has been used to support consolidation and part-nationalisation of banks.CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim were both nationalised as they sank under the weight of toxic property loans.The salary measure was part of a fresh round of banking reform earlier this month when De Guindos ordered Spanish banks to put aside some \u20ac50bn for bad loans and write-downs on toxic real estate. This will bring further consolidation and more use of FROB money.The fact that the measure was passed by De Guindos rather than his socialist predecessor, Elena Salgado, has raised eyebrows. Spain's leading political blogger, Ignacio Escolar, said: \"She made a feint at capping these salaries but her plans never came to fruition.\"He noted that the head of a bank rescued by taxpayers would still earn 10 times the average wage. \"In one year they will earn as much as someone on the minimum wage will get in their life, if they work for 33 years.\"Rajoy has also raised income tax, especially for higher earners, and come out in support of the financial transactions tax introduced by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He took over the reins of government in December from Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialists.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Business", "Mariano Rajoy", "Bankia"], "title": "Spain cuts salaries of rescued bank bosses"},{"date": "2012-01-31T13:24:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Crusading Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n has told a court trying him for abuse of his powers that an investigation he opened into the deaths of 114,000 opponents of the Franco regime was based on the same principles used to order the arrest of Chile's Augusto Pinochet.The judge was giving evidence as he faced charges of deliberately abusing his powers in order to open a formal court investigation into human rights crimes committed by dictator General Francisco Franco's regime between 1936 and 1975.Garz\u00f3n, who had a brief and controversial parliamentary career as a Socialist MP, denied he was motivated by political ideology.He told a panel of supreme court judges he had simply been seeking the truth and looking after the rights of the victims and their families.\"There was no ideology in this, but there were thousands and thousands of victims whose rights had not been dealt with,\" he said.Garz\u00f3n faces being fined and struck off as an investigating magistrate for 20 years if he is found guilty in this trial, which is just one of three different cases against him going through the supreme court. He said his investigation into Francoist crimes was similar to those he carried out - backed by the Spanish courts - into human rights offences committed by Pinochet's dictatorship and Argentina's military juntas.Garz\u00f3n had Pinochet arrested in London in 1998 and the British courts accepted he could be extradited to Spain to face trial.Among other arguments used by Garz\u00f3n in the Pinochet case was that the crime of \"disappearance\" \u2014 when someone is taken away and never seen again \u2014 cannot be covered by amnesty laws as it is an ongoing crime of kidnapping that is still being committed today.He used this principle in the Franco case as the bodies of many of the victims, which are believed to lie in secret mass graves, have never been found.Garz\u00f3n also brought a successful prosecution against an Argentinian navy captain, Adolfo Scilingo, who was jailed by a Madrid court for throwing drugged prisoners out of aircraft into the sea.\"I based myself on the Scilingo case from Argentina when accepting this investigation [into Francoist crimes],\" he said on Tuesday.Garz\u00f3n said he had declined to open a separate investigation in the mass killing of thousands of prisoners of the leftwing republican government during the Spanish civil war because he did not think it was a matter for the national court to deal with.\"Garz\u00f3n showed today that his decision to take up the investigation of the crimes of the Franco era was fully supported by international law,\" said Reed Brody, an observer from Human Rights Watch. \" But the spectacle of a judge as a criminal defendant, having to justify his investigation into torture, killings and disappearances was itself an affront to principles of human rights and judicial independence.\"A dozen relatives of Franco's victims are to give evidence during the trial, which is expected to last for weeks and has drawn observers from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.Protests continued outside the courthouse on Tuesday, as victims, relatives and pro-Garz\u00f3n campaigners complained he had become the victim of a concerted campaign of persecution.", "tags": ["Baltasar Garz\u00f3n", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Francisco Franco", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Baltasar Garz\u00f3n trial opens in Spain"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are few things from childhood that define your social class more than your relationship with horses. If you grew up on a council estate, as I did, a horse was something each member of the family put money on once a year when the Grand National came around, so you could enjoy the joy of bonding as a family by shouting at the television in support of your particular nag and threatening to turn the losers into glue.Melanie, my wife, had a different upbringing. The only daughter of a\u00a0working-class boy from Preston who became a successful businessman, much of her childhood was spent owning and riding horses. She'd be in one part of the annual country show jumping a prized pony while I was in another riding a secondhand Chopper and trying to be Evel Knievel.Then we both entered adulthood and life took over. Marriage, children, mortgages, holidays, careers and the school run all replaced the joy of riding, something that sent the wind through your hair and filled your chest with joy. So a trip to southern Spain to go horse riding together was a chance for us to feel that again.Ex-pats Ali and Sarah Vesey run the Caballo Blanco Trekking Centre, just outside the Andalucian town of Lanjaron, and it was Ali who picked us up from the airport and drove us to our lodgings, La Casa del Viento. Although we arrived late, Ann, the owner, was waiting for us. The altitude meant the air was cooler, but the log burner was lit, there was wine and cheese on the table and a pan of homemade soup on the stove. As the fire began to warm us, it was as if we'd been transported into our very own hobbit house.After a fantastic night's sleep, a\u00a0good breakfast and strong Spanish coffee, we were collected by Ali and set off up to the ranch in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountains. At the stables we met Sarah, who set up the centre more than 16 years ago. I had not been sure what to wear on my legs. The advice had been to wear something without seams, and the only things I knew of without seams were tights, but Melanie assured me this was not what was meant, so I wore tracksuit bottoms. Sarah also said I needed \"chaps\", which scared me, because I had visions of the big leather ones worn by the cowboy in Village People, but thankfully these just cover your calves and shins. If you go riding, wear them \u2013 they are lifesavers. Melanie had brought her jodhpurs, even though she no longer has a\u00a0horse, but that's our business.Once suitably attired, it was time to meet our horses. Most are Andalucians, and Sarah had already selected ours based on our relative experience. I was given a striking white horse called Cielo, while Melanie got the more feisty Mimi.Starting 100m up at the ranch, Sarah led us north, climbing above the town of Orgiva along a logging trail towards Puente Palo, then steeply up an ancient mule path known as El Prado de Las Liebres (the meadow of the hares). The views were spectacular and the area alive with wildlife, from mountain goats and vultures to wild boars.As we climbed 1,800m, it was clear to me that Cielo was looking at Mimi's load and feeling slightly aggrieved at having to lug 14 stones of bouncy Englishman on his back rather than the graceful, light weight of someone who was immediately in with the rhythm of the horse. But by the time we paused for lunch, we'd grown accustomed to each other.By this point, you see, I'd learned the three basic rules for the novice:Rule number one You are on a horse, not a Chopper, so do not lean back when going uphill, hoping for a\u00a0wheelie \u2013 you will look stupid.Rule number two If you do not get your backside out of the saddle when the horse runs, it will hurt everywhere and you will look stupid.Rule number three If you stand up out of the saddle to try to make the horse run and he doesn't want to run and so stands still, your legs will\u00a0hurt and you will look stupid.But being a novice rider is like being a novice golfer. On the links, it is that one shot out of 100 that you remember, and on a horse it is that moment, however fleeting, when you and the horse suddenly connect.After lunch, we followed the Lanjaron river gorge to see the snow on the range. As we turned back, Cielo began to trot and I realised I was no longer bouncing but moving in rhythm with him. I was back to being five, when Dad took the stabilisers off my bicycle and, after running with me for a while, let me go. I could hear his voice growing distant, but didn't want to look back in case I wobbled and fell. The excitement, the wind in my face, Dad calling to me not to stop\u2026 Then the park of my childhood was replaced by the Sierra Nevada, the sun reflecting off the Mediterranean, the mountains of the African continent shimmering on the distant horizon, and it was Sarah telling Cielo to stop. We were in harmony, but only because he knew he was on his way down and felt like a bit of a trot first.After the descent back to the ranch and a rather emotional goodbye to the horses that had carried us for hours, it was time to thank Sarah and return to La Casa del Viento. That night we ate with Ann and some other guests in front of a raging fire \u2013 the food and the company were excellent. When we had to leave the following morning, it was with a real hint of sadness. By the time we landed back at Manchester, my legs had begun to stiffen and feel sore. Riding for the first time is like falling in love for the first time: when it's happening, it's the best thing in the world; the day after it's over, you hurt like hell. But you count the days till it happens again.\u2022 John Bishop went with GoLearnTo.com on a three-day horse-riding break in Lanjaron, from \u00a3317pp (flights not included, transfers, etc extra). GoLearnTo is offering Guardian readers 20% off deposits for bookings made on any horse riding holiday worldwide before the\u00a0end of February 2012. To qualify, quote the promo code GHR when making your booking.\u2022 WIN: Horse-riding lessons in Dubai. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Horse riding holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Spain holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "John Bishop"], "title": "John Bishop goes horse-riding in Spain"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-02-10T15:59:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "While debate continues to rage in the UK about bonuses, and bank bosses defend their payouts, their counterparts in Spain are taking a rather more pragmatic and popular approachRodrigo Rato's position as a former boss of the International Monetary Fund and now one of Spain's senior bankers would normally put him among Europe's highest-paid financiers. But then his bank took money from the taxpayer so Rato has agreed to have his executive chairman's salary at the Bankia group slashed by three-quarters. His \u20ac2.34m (\u00a31.95m) package will be cut to \u20ac600,000.The cut has been ordered by the new conservative People's party government of Mariano Rajoy, which is clamping down on pay to bankers who have had to seek help from the state.\"Naturally, I will obey,\" said Rato, who heads Spain's third-biggest lender.Bankia's number two, Francisco Verd\u00fa, will also see his salary reduced to \u20ac600,000 from \u20ac2.2m. Non-executive directors will be limited to \u20ac100,000.\"Bankia and all of us who work in it will, of course, comply with any government decision,\" said Rato, who is also a former PP finance minister.Where the Spanish government has nationalised or part-nationalised a bank \u2013 as happened with Britain's Lloyds TSB or the Royal Bank of Scotland \u2013 the salary cuts are even greater. The upper limit for these banks is \u20ac300,000, with non-executive directors capped at \u20ac50,000.That will be a blow to Adolf Tod\u00f3, head of the CatalunyaCaixa savings bank, and Jordi Mestre of Unnim. Their wages are \u20ac1.55m and \u20ac960,000 respectively.The measures announced by the finance minister, Luis de Guindos, will hurt a handful of senior bankers, but have been widely approved of by Spaniards.\"We are asking society as a whole for sacrifices and those of us who have most should set an example,\" De Guindos, former banker who once worked for Rato, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper.Bankia received a \u20ac4.5bn loan from the Spanish government's FROB bank restructuring fund, which has been used to support consolidation and part-nationalisation of banks.CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim were both nationalised as they sank under the weight of toxic property loans.The salary measure was part of a fresh round of banking reform earlier this month when De Guindos ordered Spanish banks to put aside some \u20ac50bn for bad loans and write-downs on toxic real estate. This will bring further consolidation and more use of FROB money.The fact that the measure was passed by De Guindos rather than his socialist predecessor, Elena Salgado, has raised eyebrows. Spain's leading political blogger, Ignacio Escolar, said: \"She made a feint at capping these salaries but her plans never came to fruition.\"He noted that the head of a bank rescued by taxpayers would still earn 10 times the average wage. \"In one year they will earn as much as someone on the minimum wage will get in their life, if they work for 33 years.\"Rajoy has also raised income tax, especially for higher earners, and come out in support of the financial transactions tax introduced by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He took over the reins of government in December from Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialists.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Business", "Mariano Rajoy", "Bankia"], "title": "Spain cuts salaries of rescued bank bosses"},{"date": "2012-01-31T13:24:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Crusading Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n has told a court trying him for abuse of his powers that an investigation he opened into the deaths of 114,000 opponents of the Franco regime was based on the same principles used to order the arrest of Chile's Augusto Pinochet.The judge was giving evidence as he faced charges of deliberately abusing his powers in order to open a formal court investigation into human rights crimes committed by dictator General Francisco Franco's regime between 1936 and 1975.Garz\u00f3n, who had a brief and controversial parliamentary career as a Socialist MP, denied he was motivated by political ideology.He told a panel of supreme court judges he had simply been seeking the truth and looking after the rights of the victims and their families.\"There was no ideology in this, but there were thousands and thousands of victims whose rights had not been dealt with,\" he said.Garz\u00f3n faces being fined and struck off as an investigating magistrate for 20 years if he is found guilty in this trial, which is just one of three different cases against him going through the supreme court. He said his investigation into Francoist crimes was similar to those he carried out - backed by the Spanish courts - into human rights offences committed by Pinochet's dictatorship and Argentina's military juntas.Garz\u00f3n had Pinochet arrested in London in 1998 and the British courts accepted he could be extradited to Spain to face trial.Among other arguments used by Garz\u00f3n in the Pinochet case was that the crime of \"disappearance\" \u2014 when someone is taken away and never seen again \u2014 cannot be covered by amnesty laws as it is an ongoing crime of kidnapping that is still being committed today.He used this principle in the Franco case as the bodies of many of the victims, which are believed to lie in secret mass graves, have never been found.Garz\u00f3n also brought a successful prosecution against an Argentinian navy captain, Adolfo Scilingo, who was jailed by a Madrid court for throwing drugged prisoners out of aircraft into the sea.\"I based myself on the Scilingo case from Argentina when accepting this investigation [into Francoist crimes],\" he said on Tuesday.Garz\u00f3n said he had declined to open a separate investigation in the mass killing of thousands of prisoners of the leftwing republican government during the Spanish civil war because he did not think it was a matter for the national court to deal with.\"Garz\u00f3n showed today that his decision to take up the investigation of the crimes of the Franco era was fully supported by international law,\" said Reed Brody, an observer from Human Rights Watch. \" But the spectacle of a judge as a criminal defendant, having to justify his investigation into torture, killings and disappearances was itself an affront to principles of human rights and judicial independence.\"A dozen relatives of Franco's victims are to give evidence during the trial, which is expected to last for weeks and has drawn observers from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.Protests continued outside the courthouse on Tuesday, as victims, relatives and pro-Garz\u00f3n campaigners complained he had become the victim of a concerted campaign of persecution.", "tags": ["Baltasar Garz\u00f3n", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Francisco Franco", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Baltasar Garz\u00f3n trial opens in Spain"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are few things from childhood that define your social class more than your relationship with horses. If you grew up on a council estate, as I did, a horse was something each member of the family put money on once a year when the Grand National came around, so you could enjoy the joy of bonding as a family by shouting at the television in support of your particular nag and threatening to turn the losers into glue.Melanie, my wife, had a different upbringing. The only daughter of a\u00a0working-class boy from Preston who became a successful businessman, much of her childhood was spent owning and riding horses. She'd be in one part of the annual country show jumping a prized pony while I was in another riding a secondhand Chopper and trying to be Evel Knievel.Then we both entered adulthood and life took over. Marriage, children, mortgages, holidays, careers and the school run all replaced the joy of riding, something that sent the wind through your hair and filled your chest with joy. So a trip to southern Spain to go horse riding together was a chance for us to feel that again.Ex-pats Ali and Sarah Vesey run the Caballo Blanco Trekking Centre, just outside the Andalucian town of Lanjaron, and it was Ali who picked us up from the airport and drove us to our lodgings, La Casa del Viento. Although we arrived late, Ann, the owner, was waiting for us. The altitude meant the air was cooler, but the log burner was lit, there was wine and cheese on the table and a pan of homemade soup on the stove. As the fire began to warm us, it was as if we'd been transported into our very own hobbit house.After a fantastic night's sleep, a\u00a0good breakfast and strong Spanish coffee, we were collected by Ali and set off up to the ranch in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountains. At the stables we met Sarah, who set up the centre more than 16 years ago. I had not been sure what to wear on my legs. The advice had been to wear something without seams, and the only things I knew of without seams were tights, but Melanie assured me this was not what was meant, so I wore tracksuit bottoms. Sarah also said I needed \"chaps\", which scared me, because I had visions of the big leather ones worn by the cowboy in Village People, but thankfully these just cover your calves and shins. If you go riding, wear them \u2013 they are lifesavers. Melanie had brought her jodhpurs, even though she no longer has a\u00a0horse, but that's our business.Once suitably attired, it was time to meet our horses. Most are Andalucians, and Sarah had already selected ours based on our relative experience. I was given a striking white horse called Cielo, while Melanie got the more feisty Mimi.Starting 100m up at the ranch, Sarah led us north, climbing above the town of Orgiva along a logging trail towards Puente Palo, then steeply up an ancient mule path known as El Prado de Las Liebres (the meadow of the hares). The views were spectacular and the area alive with wildlife, from mountain goats and vultures to wild boars.As we climbed 1,800m, it was clear to me that Cielo was looking at Mimi's load and feeling slightly aggrieved at having to lug 14 stones of bouncy Englishman on his back rather than the graceful, light weight of someone who was immediately in with the rhythm of the horse. But by the time we paused for lunch, we'd grown accustomed to each other.By this point, you see, I'd learned the three basic rules for the novice:Rule number one You are on a horse, not a Chopper, so do not lean back when going uphill, hoping for a\u00a0wheelie \u2013 you will look stupid.Rule number two If you do not get your backside out of the saddle when the horse runs, it will hurt everywhere and you will look stupid.Rule number three If you stand up out of the saddle to try to make the horse run and he doesn't want to run and so stands still, your legs will\u00a0hurt and you will look stupid.But being a novice rider is like being a novice golfer. On the links, it is that one shot out of 100 that you remember, and on a horse it is that moment, however fleeting, when you and the horse suddenly connect.After lunch, we followed the Lanjaron river gorge to see the snow on the range. As we turned back, Cielo began to trot and I realised I was no longer bouncing but moving in rhythm with him. I was back to being five, when Dad took the stabilisers off my bicycle and, after running with me for a while, let me go. I could hear his voice growing distant, but didn't want to look back in case I wobbled and fell. The excitement, the wind in my face, Dad calling to me not to stop\u2026 Then the park of my childhood was replaced by the Sierra Nevada, the sun reflecting off the Mediterranean, the mountains of the African continent shimmering on the distant horizon, and it was Sarah telling Cielo to stop. We were in harmony, but only because he knew he was on his way down and felt like a bit of a trot first.After the descent back to the ranch and a rather emotional goodbye to the horses that had carried us for hours, it was time to thank Sarah and return to La Casa del Viento. That night we ate with Ann and some other guests in front of a raging fire \u2013 the food and the company were excellent. When we had to leave the following morning, it was with a real hint of sadness. By the time we landed back at Manchester, my legs had begun to stiffen and feel sore. Riding for the first time is like falling in love for the first time: when it's happening, it's the best thing in the world; the day after it's over, you hurt like hell. But you count the days till it happens again.\u2022 John Bishop went with GoLearnTo.com on a three-day horse-riding break in Lanjaron, from \u00a3317pp (flights not included, transfers, etc extra). GoLearnTo is offering Guardian readers 20% off deposits for bookings made on any horse riding holiday worldwide before the\u00a0end of February 2012. To qualify, quote the promo code GHR when making your booking.\u2022 WIN: Horse-riding lessons in Dubai. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Horse riding holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Spain holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "John Bishop"], "title": "John Bishop goes horse-riding in Spain"},{"date": "2012-01-26T12:35:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Deep economic pessimism and the institutional cacophony of the European Union have worn down Spain's pro-European spirit. The last Eurobarometer opinion poll shows 62% of Spaniards \"tend to distrust\" the EU, against 30% who \"tend to trust\" it. Spanish distrust has now risen above the levels in France or Germany, though it has yet to reach the traditional Euroscepticism of Britain or the new-found wariness of troubled Greece.Spain's political elites have done nothing directly to encourage this sudden change. The previous socialist government did not even admit its changed economic policies were linked to EU pressure. Officially, the main parties on both the right and left are Europhile. No leading Socialist or member of the People's party (PP) has raised their voice against the EU. Nor have any leading nationalists in Catalonia or the Basque country. They believe the EU provides a better framework for their aspirations than the Spanish state.But Spaniards are poorly informed. After years as a country that receives more than it gives to EU funds, a November 2009 poll by CIS (Centre for Social Investigation) found only 26% knew that Spain was a net receiver. A higher percentage mistakenly believed it was a net donor.The groups who trust the EU most are the better-educated professionals, higher earners and young people. Distrust is highest among elderly people, those with less education, unemployed people, pensioners and those who have trouble paying their monthly bills.Trust is also higher among those who see globalisation as an opportunity, who also tend to come from the higher social and economic classes. Those who see the national economy in optimistic terms, admittedly a minority in Spain, are also trusters.Spain's EU entry came with hopes that it would help bolster freedoms and reduce economic and social differences. And that is what happened. But now 67% of Spaniards believe things are going in the wrong direction inside the EU, against only 13% who believe they are going right.Despite all this, it is still early to declare Spain a Eurosceptic country. Even though public support has fallen dramatically (in October 2010, for example, three out of four Spaniards had a good or very good opinion of the EU, according to the Latinobar\u00f3metro), other figures show a country seeking European solutions. Six out of 10 Spaniards agree, for example, that EU membership has been good for their country and that it is best to stay in, even if those percentages are falling.There is room for confidence: 74% of Spaniards think Europe urgently needs a government with sufficient powers to unify and co-ordinate the actions of the 27 member states, according to a Metroscopia poll from January 2012. That seems clear backing for the recent Brussels agreement that Britain opted out of.This is not a task that Mariano Rajoy's PP government can carry out alone, but public opinion points to the way forward \u2013 which is to work towards exactly that kind of joint government. Apart from the problems of achieving that, another major test awaits: finding out whether people are really aware enough of the price to be paid in terms of national policies that will be conditioned by higher powers inside the EU framework or in the directorate that is set up at its heart.Joaqu\u00edn Prieto writes for el Pa\u00eds", "tags": ["European Union", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain discovers Euroscepticism amid economic gloom"},{"date": "2012-03-29T22:12:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish firms lost little time taking advantage of revised labour laws that make it easier for them to dismiss employees, cut their wages, and unilaterally change their conditions of work. The figures for Andaluc\u00eda alone show eight times as many sackings as there were this time last year in the less than two months since the laws came into effect. And cuts in pay, or an imposed choice between cuts in pay and dismissal, are already realities for many Spaniards.So it is no surprise that the general strike called to protest against the measures by the two principal union confederations on Thursday was a relative success. It was no surprise when prime minister Mariano Rajoy's Popular party, in office for only three months, stumbled at its first electoral hurdle two days ago in regional elections in Andaluc\u00eda. And it will be no surprise on Friday if the budget due to be announced by his government is greeted with a mixture of dismay, anger and incomprehension \u2013 since the scale of the cuts in spending Mr Rajoy is aiming at can only be achieved by further depressing the living standards of Spaniards.Mr Rajoy's defenders would say that the labour laws needed reforming, and they would be right. Spain's labour market is really two markets, a privileged and highly protected one for some well-unionised workers, mainly in the public sector, and a precarious and largely unprotected one for the rest, including most of the young people starting in employment for the first time. This polarity is evident throughout much of Europe, particularly southern Europe, and is at its most extreme in Spain and Italy. It is worth emphasising that it long predates the economic crisis. It made sense in many countries to try to close this gap, reducing privilege a little at one end and increasing job security and rights at the other. The trouble is that the usual result is that secure workers lose too much and insecure workers gain too little, while employers grab the cost savings that they can. That seems to be the case with the Spanish version as well.The larger problem is that Mr Rajoy is proffering these labour law changes as a way of promoting growth at the same time as imposing cuts that will massively inhibit it. Even if they were successful, a moot point, any benefit would be far outweighed by the impact on the economy of the severe cuts to which he has no alternative as long as a European, and a German, strategy of austerity prevails. In Italy, Mario Monti is facing a similar problem, while Greece has been in effect already overwhelmed by it \u2013 and is now into its fifth year of recession. This is a straitjacket from which even the most skilful political Houdini cannot extricate himself. Until thinking changes in the north, it is unfortunately safe to say, there will be no end to the pain in Spain.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Euro", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "Austerity: the pain in Spain | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-30T18:36:36Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Mariano Rajoy's conservative government announced Spain's most austere budget for more than three decades \u2013 the day after a million protesters took to Spanish streets.\"We are taking extraordinary measures because the situation is extraordinary,\" the budget minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said before announcing \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.5bn) in spending cuts and tax rises.Markets and fellow eurozone members increasingly fear that Spain \u2013 whose economy is twice the size of that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together \u2013 could be the biggest threat to their future.\"Spain is going to stop being a problem, especially for the Spanish people, but also for the European Union,\" finance minister Luis de Guindos said as he prepared to explain the austerity measures to concerned eurozone ministers who were meeting in Copenhagen.It was unclear whether the complex \u20ac27bn adjustment, which included \u20ac15bn in tax rises and spending cuts announced in December, would convince the markets.\"This is as austere as it gets. It's a tightening of fiscal policy until the pips squeak,\" said Nicholas Spiro at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. \"There can be no doubting the government's willingness to curb Spain's excessive budget deficits.\"Pressure eased slightly on Spain's bond yields on Friday, suggesting the initial reaction was positive, but some analysts said they needed to study the measures more closely.Montoro avoided raising headline corporate taxes and sales taxes in an attempt to limit damage to consumer spending in a country already tumbling into recession. The government estimates the economy will shrink by 1.7% this year.He insisted that, with unemployment at 23% and climbing, he had tried to avoid hurting the economy's chances of recovery. But economists have warned the deficit-cutting measures demanded of Spain this year will take two percentage points of GDP off growth, pushing the country into the second part of a double-dip recession.The adjustment, which amounts to some \u20ac570 per Spaniard, mostly came from widely distributed spending cuts, with ministries cutting by an average 17% and a sharp fall in infrastructure investment.Civil servants, whose salaries were cut by 5% in 2010, were among the biggest losers: their wages were frozen again this year.Corporate taxes were tightened up, with loopholes disappearing, so that Spain's biggest companies will contribute \u20ac5.3bn to the adjustment.Montoro launched a tax amnesty, appealing to those with money hidden offshore or in the underground economy to take advantage of a one-off, no-questions-asked deal that would allow them to pay between 8% and 10% tax.Estimated revenue of \u20ac2.5bn from that tax indicates that he expects \u20ac25bn to appear in a country where up to 20% of the economy is thought to be underground.Income tax rises announced in December, with top earners hit specially hard, were expected to contribute \u20ac4bn.While Spanish electricity bills will rise by 7% and gas bills by 5%, the government steered clear of measures that would hit Spaniards directly in their pockets.The measures introduced so far, including reform of labour laws, have already damaged the popularity of Rajoy's People's party just 100 days after it took over the reins of government.Thursday's general strike came after regional elections in southern Andalucia saw the ruling PP's vote drop to 41% from 46% at the November general election when Rajoy ousted a socialist government.Rajoy blames the socialists, who had promised to leave the deficit at 6% of GDP last year, for Spain's current plight. Last year's deficit was 8.5 %.Montoro will take the budget, which does not formally come into effect until May or June, to parliament next week, where it may be altered.Economists had warned that, in order to meet the \u20ac35bn net adjustment demanded by the EU, with falling tax revenues and an economy falling into recession, the real extra adjustment in the last nine months of the year had to reach \u20ac40bn.Spaniards are upset that the EU has demanded such a fierce deficit cut over the next two years \u2013 bigger than that asked of the eurozone's bailed-out countries.While Greece must cut the deficit by 4.7% of its GDP over the next two years, Spain has to find 5.5%. Ireland has been set a 2.6 % adjustment and Portugal 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "Spain", "Mariano Rajoy"], "title": "Spain announces 'extraordinary' \u20ac27bn budget cuts"},{"date": "2012-03-16T22:45:04Z", "country": "spain", "content": "This place is a cool, swanky eaterie by day and a trendy bar/club by night. Decked out in a fusion of oriental and Mediterranean decor, it's a great place for lunch after a stroll or swim. During the day we took in the sunshine and relaxed on the huge loungers. The food was great and elegantly presented. It's a bit pricey but you're paying for the ambience. Music ranges from chart to dance to hip-hop. Passeig Mar\u00edtim 32, +34 93 224 0470, cdlcbarcelona.com KittyKrisPlaya de Torimbia barA one-track train, the Feve, runs along the coast of Asturias. From a base in Llanes you can ride it west to Villahormes and ramble back east, mostly on a coast path. Biscay's waves chew the feet of the Picos mountains, leaving bite-mark coves. On a coastline of best beaches, Playa de Torimbia is the best of all. It's a half-mile curve of gold held by sheer cliffs; skinny-dipping normal but not compulsory; the only building is a simple bar with paella, raciones and beer.Niembro is the nearest village. There is a car park on the cliff at the eastern end of the bay. The bar is at the western endrmjiLa GaviotaThis is the place we come to first when we visit Spain. The food is always the same, which makes it a local favourite, and everything is so Spanish. Gambas pil pil, calamares and simple grilled meat and fish, all packed full of flavour. The setting is magnificent, in a small cove next to Cerro Gordo on a two-mile beach. Best bit \u2013 an early evening tinto de verano (summer wine) watching the sun go down over the headland. Paseo de Andres Segovia, +34 958 827550Temple1La SonrisaFor stunning views of seven kilometres of unspoilt, golden sand and sparkling blue sea, look no further than this family-run bar with real Spanish atmosphere and a great selection of meat and fresh fish from the barbecue. Grilled and split lobsters in season are great value and an absolute must, and there's a terrific selection of tapas served from about noon onward. Elevated slightly from the beach, and with a partially glassed-in area to protect from sea breezes, it provides a perfect area to relax over a cerveza or the excellent house wine. Late evening it's buzzing, often to the accompaniment of live music.Playa de Punta del Moral, +34 66 915 9117, lasonrisa.euPaulineRendallPlaya de Canyamel beach barsThere are two beach bars here, completely different in style. One is very modern, with moulded chairs and tables, lobster evenings, and food and (sometimes live) music until late. The other is more traditional, serving simple snacks, such as chicken and chips, and beers. Both overlook this secluded bay beneath the Caves of Arta and Cap Vermell and have the feel of old Mallorca about them.JantayEl ChiringuitoSkip the ever-popular Salinas beach and head further across to Es Cavallet beach (part-nudist) to discover this shimmering all-white beach house, more hip and swanky than the rest. Chow down on light, crispy calamari dunked in aioli and the freshest fish you can eat. Then sink back on huge day beds with a bottle of fizz and let the Balearic beats take over. Book ahead or arrive early to secure one of the sought-after sunloungers in front of the bar.elchiringuitoibiza.comMonikasaysSol Beach BarThis bar lies on the resort's stunning Levante beach. It's spacious and deservedly popular. Whether you want a milkshake with the family on the large terrace or the football match on one of seven television screens inside, this place should suit.Avenida de Madrid 25, Playa de Levante, +34 96 586 1800, solbeachbar.comMason1Gunlao beach barA short stroll along the beach, heading away from the town centre, leads to the most charming of Spanish beach bars, Gunlao. It has views of the north African coastline to the left, Paloma Baja sand dunes to the right, with the Atlantic Ocean sprawling out in between. It is the perfect place to step out of the breeze (Tarifa attracts windsports junkies from all over the world) and watch the colourful array of windsurfers and kite surfers, dancing across and above the sea. The windswept sand is kept at bay by the short, clear glass walls surrounding the bar. There is relaxed music, reasonably priced food and drinks, together with friendly staff and customers, gives this bar an unassuming and unpretentious feel.dunethat", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Bars and clubs", "Spanish food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: beach bars in Spain"},{"date": "2012-02-10T15:59:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "While debate continues to rage in the UK about bonuses, and bank bosses defend their payouts, their counterparts in Spain are taking a rather more pragmatic and popular approachRodrigo Rato's position as a former boss of the International Monetary Fund and now one of Spain's senior bankers would normally put him among Europe's highest-paid financiers. But then his bank took money from the taxpayer so Rato has agreed to have his executive chairman's salary at the Bankia group slashed by three-quarters. His \u20ac2.34m (\u00a31.95m) package will be cut to \u20ac600,000.The cut has been ordered by the new conservative People's party government of Mariano Rajoy, which is clamping down on pay to bankers who have had to seek help from the state.\"Naturally, I will obey,\" said Rato, who heads Spain's third-biggest lender.Bankia's number two, Francisco Verd\u00fa, will also see his salary reduced to \u20ac600,000 from \u20ac2.2m. Non-executive directors will be limited to \u20ac100,000.\"Bankia and all of us who work in it will, of course, comply with any government decision,\" said Rato, who is also a former PP finance minister.Where the Spanish government has nationalised or part-nationalised a bank \u2013 as happened with Britain's Lloyds TSB or the Royal Bank of Scotland \u2013 the salary cuts are even greater. The upper limit for these banks is \u20ac300,000, with non-executive directors capped at \u20ac50,000.That will be a blow to Adolf Tod\u00f3, head of the CatalunyaCaixa savings bank, and Jordi Mestre of Unnim. Their wages are \u20ac1.55m and \u20ac960,000 respectively.The measures announced by the finance minister, Luis de Guindos, will hurt a handful of senior bankers, but have been widely approved of by Spaniards.\"We are asking society as a whole for sacrifices and those of us who have most should set an example,\" De Guindos, former banker who once worked for Rato, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper.Bankia received a \u20ac4.5bn loan from the Spanish government's FROB bank restructuring fund, which has been used to support consolidation and part-nationalisation of banks.CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim were both nationalised as they sank under the weight of toxic property loans.The salary measure was part of a fresh round of banking reform earlier this month when De Guindos ordered Spanish banks to put aside some \u20ac50bn for bad loans and write-downs on toxic real estate. This will bring further consolidation and more use of FROB money.The fact that the measure was passed by De Guindos rather than his socialist predecessor, Elena Salgado, has raised eyebrows. Spain's leading political blogger, Ignacio Escolar, said: \"She made a feint at capping these salaries but her plans never came to fruition.\"He noted that the head of a bank rescued by taxpayers would still earn 10 times the average wage. \"In one year they will earn as much as someone on the minimum wage will get in their life, if they work for 33 years.\"Rajoy has also raised income tax, especially for higher earners, and come out in support of the financial transactions tax introduced by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy. He took over the reins of government in December from Jos\u00e9 Luis Rodr\u00edguez Zapatero's socialists.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Spain", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Business", "Mariano Rajoy", "Bankia"], "title": "Spain cuts salaries of rescued bank bosses"},{"date": "2012-01-31T13:24:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Crusading Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n has told a court trying him for abuse of his powers that an investigation he opened into the deaths of 114,000 opponents of the Franco regime was based on the same principles used to order the arrest of Chile's Augusto Pinochet.The judge was giving evidence as he faced charges of deliberately abusing his powers in order to open a formal court investigation into human rights crimes committed by dictator General Francisco Franco's regime between 1936 and 1975.Garz\u00f3n, who had a brief and controversial parliamentary career as a Socialist MP, denied he was motivated by political ideology.He told a panel of supreme court judges he had simply been seeking the truth and looking after the rights of the victims and their families.\"There was no ideology in this, but there were thousands and thousands of victims whose rights had not been dealt with,\" he said.Garz\u00f3n faces being fined and struck off as an investigating magistrate for 20 years if he is found guilty in this trial, which is just one of three different cases against him going through the supreme court. He said his investigation into Francoist crimes was similar to those he carried out - backed by the Spanish courts - into human rights offences committed by Pinochet's dictatorship and Argentina's military juntas.Garz\u00f3n had Pinochet arrested in London in 1998 and the British courts accepted he could be extradited to Spain to face trial.Among other arguments used by Garz\u00f3n in the Pinochet case was that the crime of \"disappearance\" \u2014 when someone is taken away and never seen again \u2014 cannot be covered by amnesty laws as it is an ongoing crime of kidnapping that is still being committed today.He used this principle in the Franco case as the bodies of many of the victims, which are believed to lie in secret mass graves, have never been found.Garz\u00f3n also brought a successful prosecution against an Argentinian navy captain, Adolfo Scilingo, who was jailed by a Madrid court for throwing drugged prisoners out of aircraft into the sea.\"I based myself on the Scilingo case from Argentina when accepting this investigation [into Francoist crimes],\" he said on Tuesday.Garz\u00f3n said he had declined to open a separate investigation in the mass killing of thousands of prisoners of the leftwing republican government during the Spanish civil war because he did not think it was a matter for the national court to deal with.\"Garz\u00f3n showed today that his decision to take up the investigation of the crimes of the Franco era was fully supported by international law,\" said Reed Brody, an observer from Human Rights Watch. \" But the spectacle of a judge as a criminal defendant, having to justify his investigation into torture, killings and disappearances was itself an affront to principles of human rights and judicial independence.\"A dozen relatives of Franco's victims are to give evidence during the trial, which is expected to last for weeks and has drawn observers from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.Protests continued outside the courthouse on Tuesday, as victims, relatives and pro-Garz\u00f3n campaigners complained he had become the victim of a concerted campaign of persecution.", "tags": ["Baltasar Garz\u00f3n", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Francisco Franco", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Baltasar Garz\u00f3n trial opens in Spain"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are few things from childhood that define your social class more than your relationship with horses. If you grew up on a council estate, as I did, a horse was something each member of the family put money on once a year when the Grand National came around, so you could enjoy the joy of bonding as a family by shouting at the television in support of your particular nag and threatening to turn the losers into glue.Melanie, my wife, had a different upbringing. The only daughter of a\u00a0working-class boy from Preston who became a successful businessman, much of her childhood was spent owning and riding horses. She'd be in one part of the annual country show jumping a prized pony while I was in another riding a secondhand Chopper and trying to be Evel Knievel.Then we both entered adulthood and life took over. Marriage, children, mortgages, holidays, careers and the school run all replaced the joy of riding, something that sent the wind through your hair and filled your chest with joy. So a trip to southern Spain to go horse riding together was a chance for us to feel that again.Ex-pats Ali and Sarah Vesey run the Caballo Blanco Trekking Centre, just outside the Andalucian town of Lanjaron, and it was Ali who picked us up from the airport and drove us to our lodgings, La Casa del Viento. Although we arrived late, Ann, the owner, was waiting for us. The altitude meant the air was cooler, but the log burner was lit, there was wine and cheese on the table and a pan of homemade soup on the stove. As the fire began to warm us, it was as if we'd been transported into our very own hobbit house.After a fantastic night's sleep, a\u00a0good breakfast and strong Spanish coffee, we were collected by Ali and set off up to the ranch in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountains. At the stables we met Sarah, who set up the centre more than 16 years ago. I had not been sure what to wear on my legs. The advice had been to wear something without seams, and the only things I knew of without seams were tights, but Melanie assured me this was not what was meant, so I wore tracksuit bottoms. Sarah also said I needed \"chaps\", which scared me, because I had visions of the big leather ones worn by the cowboy in Village People, but thankfully these just cover your calves and shins. If you go riding, wear them \u2013 they are lifesavers. Melanie had brought her jodhpurs, even though she no longer has a\u00a0horse, but that's our business.Once suitably attired, it was time to meet our horses. Most are Andalucians, and Sarah had already selected ours based on our relative experience. I was given a striking white horse called Cielo, while Melanie got the more feisty Mimi.Starting 100m up at the ranch, Sarah led us north, climbing above the town of Orgiva along a logging trail towards Puente Palo, then steeply up an ancient mule path known as El Prado de Las Liebres (the meadow of the hares). The views were spectacular and the area alive with wildlife, from mountain goats and vultures to wild boars.As we climbed 1,800m, it was clear to me that Cielo was looking at Mimi's load and feeling slightly aggrieved at having to lug 14 stones of bouncy Englishman on his back rather than the graceful, light weight of someone who was immediately in with the rhythm of the horse. But by the time we paused for lunch, we'd grown accustomed to each other.By this point, you see, I'd learned the three basic rules for the novice:Rule number one You are on a horse, not a Chopper, so do not lean back when going uphill, hoping for a\u00a0wheelie \u2013 you will look stupid.Rule number two If you do not get your backside out of the saddle when the horse runs, it will hurt everywhere and you will look stupid.Rule number three If you stand up out of the saddle to try to make the horse run and he doesn't want to run and so stands still, your legs will\u00a0hurt and you will look stupid.But being a novice rider is like being a novice golfer. On the links, it is that one shot out of 100 that you remember, and on a horse it is that moment, however fleeting, when you and the horse suddenly connect.After lunch, we followed the Lanjaron river gorge to see the snow on the range. As we turned back, Cielo began to trot and I realised I was no longer bouncing but moving in rhythm with him. I was back to being five, when Dad took the stabilisers off my bicycle and, after running with me for a while, let me go. I could hear his voice growing distant, but didn't want to look back in case I wobbled and fell. The excitement, the wind in my face, Dad calling to me not to stop\u2026 Then the park of my childhood was replaced by the Sierra Nevada, the sun reflecting off the Mediterranean, the mountains of the African continent shimmering on the distant horizon, and it was Sarah telling Cielo to stop. We were in harmony, but only because he knew he was on his way down and felt like a bit of a trot first.After the descent back to the ranch and a rather emotional goodbye to the horses that had carried us for hours, it was time to thank Sarah and return to La Casa del Viento. That night we ate with Ann and some other guests in front of a raging fire \u2013 the food and the company were excellent. When we had to leave the following morning, it was with a real hint of sadness. By the time we landed back at Manchester, my legs had begun to stiffen and feel sore. Riding for the first time is like falling in love for the first time: when it's happening, it's the best thing in the world; the day after it's over, you hurt like hell. But you count the days till it happens again.\u2022 John Bishop went with GoLearnTo.com on a three-day horse-riding break in Lanjaron, from \u00a3317pp (flights not included, transfers, etc extra). GoLearnTo is offering Guardian readers 20% off deposits for bookings made on any horse riding holiday worldwide before the\u00a0end of February 2012. To qualify, quote the promo code GHR when making your booking.\u2022 WIN: Horse-riding lessons in Dubai. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Horse riding holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Spain holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "John Bishop"], "title": "John Bishop goes horse-riding in Spain"},{"date": "2012-01-26T12:35:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Deep economic pessimism and the institutional cacophony of the European Union have worn down Spain's pro-European spirit. The last Eurobarometer opinion poll shows 62% of Spaniards \"tend to distrust\" the EU, against 30% who \"tend to trust\" it. Spanish distrust has now risen above the levels in France or Germany, though it has yet to reach the traditional Euroscepticism of Britain or the new-found wariness of troubled Greece.Spain's political elites have done nothing directly to encourage this sudden change. The previous socialist government did not even admit its changed economic policies were linked to EU pressure. Officially, the main parties on both the right and left are Europhile. No leading Socialist or member of the People's party (PP) has raised their voice against the EU. Nor have any leading nationalists in Catalonia or the Basque country. They believe the EU provides a better framework for their aspirations than the Spanish state.But Spaniards are poorly informed. After years as a country that receives more than it gives to EU funds, a November 2009 poll by CIS (Centre for Social Investigation) found only 26% knew that Spain was a net receiver. A higher percentage mistakenly believed it was a net donor.The groups who trust the EU most are the better-educated professionals, higher earners and young people. Distrust is highest among elderly people, those with less education, unemployed people, pensioners and those who have trouble paying their monthly bills.Trust is also higher among those who see globalisation as an opportunity, who also tend to come from the higher social and economic classes. Those who see the national economy in optimistic terms, admittedly a minority in Spain, are also trusters.Spain's EU entry came with hopes that it would help bolster freedoms and reduce economic and social differences. And that is what happened. But now 67% of Spaniards believe things are going in the wrong direction inside the EU, against only 13% who believe they are going right.Despite all this, it is still early to declare Spain a Eurosceptic country. Even though public support has fallen dramatically (in October 2010, for example, three out of four Spaniards had a good or very good opinion of the EU, according to the Latinobar\u00f3metro), other figures show a country seeking European solutions. Six out of 10 Spaniards agree, for example, that EU membership has been good for their country and that it is best to stay in, even if those percentages are falling.There is room for confidence: 74% of Spaniards think Europe urgently needs a government with sufficient powers to unify and co-ordinate the actions of the 27 member states, according to a Metroscopia poll from January 2012. That seems clear backing for the recent Brussels agreement that Britain opted out of.This is not a task that Mariano Rajoy's PP government can carry out alone, but public opinion points to the way forward \u2013 which is to work towards exactly that kind of joint government. Apart from the problems of achieving that, another major test awaits: finding out whether people are really aware enough of the price to be paid in terms of national policies that will be conditioned by higher powers inside the EU framework or in the directorate that is set up at its heart.Joaqu\u00edn Prieto writes for el Pa\u00eds", "tags": ["European Union", "Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain discovers Euroscepticism amid economic gloom"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:23:18Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The label given to Mario Monti of technocrat is about to come unstuck. Since coming to the headquarters of the Italian government to try to pick up the pieces left behind by Silvio Berlusconi, the professor has shown a fine nose for politics and an ability to take the low blows. Whether you welcomed or feared the arrival of a technocrat who had never faced an electoral vote, the same question now arises: Is Monti a technocrat in the guise of a politician or in fact a politician, someone minded to influence public life, but without the vices and evil arts of the trade?At the end of 2011, with the country facing a terrible economic situation, Monti was appointed senator for life and then as prime minister by the president of the republic, Giorgio Napolitano, with the urgent demand to bring order to chaos and regain the confidence of the markets and of Europe. That was, and remains, his main aim. Despite the challenges, Monti takes every opportunity to stress the need to regenerate Italian politics, to make it credible and to earn the trust of its citizens. He does not want to go down in history as the fireman who extinguished the fire, but as the leader who restored pride in being Italian.That's no easy task. The Berlusconi era was not only characterised by the tangible impoverishment of Italy, but above all by its civic impoverishment. During his tenure, corruption and gangsterism became the norm. Hospitals, railway stations and even historical monuments attest daily to the shameful mismanagement by politicians, and also to how little Italians respect the public sphere. Monti, whose term is due to end in 2013, intends to break that trend. His fight against tax evasion and the \"black money\" that makes up around 17.5% of GDP follows one simple theme: \"Those who defraud the IRS are thieves, who put their hands in the pocket of those who do pay.\"Is this the reasoning of a boring teacher, just a technocrat? Day after day, Italians are discovering that Monti's grey appearance and dense rhetoric hide an ironic manner and a skilled manager of the media. His predecessor dyed his hair, wore lifts in his shoes and resorted to dirty jokes. Berlusconi needed to clown around to shine at European summits. Monti chooses to exert his influence without clashing with Merkel and Sarkozy. Even so, the one-time European commissioner and former adviser to Goldman Sachs must still establish that his calls for fairness and a declaration of war on tax-dodgers are not only words., that his aim is to bring a real change to Italian politics and not just play musical chairs.", "tags": ["Europe", "Italy", "Mario Monti", "Politics", "World news"], "title": "Mario Monti \u2013 the view from Spain"},{"date": "2012-04-27T16:39:13Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spaniards have had a dismal week. On Friday, they woke to learn the credit ratings agency Standard & Poors had downgraded the country's debt two notches, another red alarm for investors. Then came the news that more people were out of work than even the grim forecasts.With Spain's economy in its second recession in three years, unemployment in the first quarter reached 24.4%, 5.6 million people. Since Spain's housing bubble burst at the end of 2007, the total of those jobless has tripled, giving the country the worst unemployment headache in the European Union.Until now football has at least provided a welcome distraction from the day-in-day-out talk of crisis. Grabbing a European Championship in 2008 and a World Cup in 2010, Spain's international team has demonstrated to the world a peerless professionalism in the beautiful game \u2013 and delivered a hugely necessary injection of national self-esteem.But even that pride took a kicking this week in a few doses of bad luck. Fans, broadcasters and advertisers were revving up for a dream Champions League final between arch Spanish rivals Barcelona and Real Madrid. But a strong Chelsea and German penalties got in their way. To top it off, on Friday afternoon, Barcelona's most successful coach \u2013 and one of the most courteous men in football \u2013 Pep Guardiola announced he would step down at the end of the season.Those hunting for work need a lot more hope than they are getting at the moment.Speaking to job-hunters queueing outside a Madrid unemployment centre for their benefits on Friday was sobering. Young and old, Spaniards and immigrants, those who had been out of work for three years and a man who was signing on that day, they all shared the same fear they would never work again.The construction business has shed jobs and it is not clear which businesses will pick up the slack. The government's budget cuts have taken the axe to research and development, a move some scientists say is a death knell to badly needed innovation.In the unemployment queue in Madrid, a single mother in her 40s, with a daughter at university, told me she had already used up her two years' unemployment benefit and would receive a state payment of about \u20ac400 for just three months more.I thought of her later on Friday when economy minister Luis de Guindos told a news conference that Spain wouldn't be able to create any new jobs until 2014. Many Spaniards, and immigrants who came to the country in better times, talk about leaving, but the reality is most don't have the language skills or the airfare to go anywhere more promising.With about 1.7 million homes where all the adults are unemployed, once benefits run out, a rising number of people will end up on the streets. Yet with the price of Spain's debt continually under pressure, the government sees no choice but to maintain its austerity course, determined to avoid Spain needing a bailout like Greece, Ireland and Portugal. In order to reach its deficit targets, Spain's government announced VAT and other taxes will rise next year.It's easy to understand why Spain's leftwing press has taken hope from the victory of Fran\u00e7ois Hollande in the first round of France's presidential elections, reasoning that the Socialist leader will battle for more EU measures to stimulate growth.The solutions are not easy. What is clear is that more economists and those looking for work are pressing for more to be done to break the vicious cycles of spiralling benefit payments and pressure on state finances, between confidence and spending, between cutting back and placing workers in industries with a future.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "Business"], "title": "What hope for Spain? | Sarah Morris"},{"date": "2012-11-30T10:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If it still felt like late summer in Andalucia, by the time the camino reached Extremadura it was definitely autumn.The Sierra Morena around the town of Monesterio is famous for the quality of its pata negra jamon iberico \u2013 extremely expensive mountain cured ham. The camino passes through 'dehesa' country, where pastureland is quite thickly planted with a variety of different oak trees. At this time of the year, the oaks in the dehesa are dropping their acorns, and the many black pigs that range freely are eating them up, getting ready to become the delicious \u2013 and hugely expensive \u2013 cured ham jam\u00f3n ib\u00e9rico. Monesterio is largely dependent on jam\u00f3n for its exployment. So important is it to the town that they have a special bank holiday on the Dia del Jam\u00f3n every September. There's even a newly opened very smart Museo del Jam\u00f3n, which shows the life cycle of the black Iberian pigs, and of the various different varieties of oak that feed them. There's a special section on the traditional ritual of the matanza, where friends and families would gather together to slaughter a pig, and the day would be spent both feasting on the bits that need eating immediately and preparing the various other parts of the pig for conserving \u2013 for sausages, jam\u00f3n, black pudding etc \u2013 so that nothing was wasted.After a couple of days in the dehesa, the camino slowly slopes towards the plains again. As you leave pig country you find yourself once more surrounded by olive groves and vines, and arrive in Fuente de Cantos. The town was bashed about a bit by the French during the Peninsular war, and is also the birthplace of the painter Zurbaran. The pilgrim albergue is an extremely comfortable former convent of San Francisco, and in the former chapel is an exhibition dedicated to Zurbaran \u2013 you have to get past the exhibition's very fierce custodian, who is not keen on visitors. Although there are none of his paintings here, we will find an altarpiece of his tomorrow, in Zafra.Zafra is a delightful town, where half the population seems to be permanently chatting on the streets, or enjoying the many tapas bars and restaurants. As well as the convent where the (rather dark) Zurbaran altarpiece can be found, there is also a fabulous mediaeval castle which is now a parador. Paradors are the state run chain of luxury hotels that was set up in the 1920s to preserve some of Spain's finest historical buildings. The one in Zafra is a 14th Century fortress, but inside it is more like a renaissance palace, with a dazzling white marble central courtyard. Crossing the plain to Merida you take the Via de la Plata Roman road that runs more or less due north from here all the way to Astorga, 750km off. Plata is apparently derived from the Arabic word balat, or paved road, and not from the Latin for silver. Just north of Zafra you pass Los Santos de Maimona, where the church has a remarkable Puerta del Perdon or Door of Forgiveness. Along the road the olive harvest was in full swing, with trailer-loads trundling off to be processed. The plain is wide and flat and largely without shade for 70km between Zafra and Merida. Merida itself is another delight. Established by Augustus, it was the capital of the Roman province of Lusitania, and was briefly a Visigothic capital of Spain, before being taken over by the Moors. Pilgrims enter the town by crossing the Guadiana river over a half mile long bridge, which, it is claimed, was the longest bridge in the Roman Empire. Other Roman remains in the town include a still functioning theatre, an amphitheatre, a circus, a lovely temple of Diana and a triumphal arch of Trajan.After eight days walking, about 220km out from Seville, Merida seemed like a good place to take a day off from the camino and amble around some Roman remains \u2013 and some bustling streets and bars.Wifi in rural Spain can be intermittent, or worse, but further updates are hoped for, either here or via @geltsdale on TwitterAlan Sykes is the Guardian Northerner's arts expert and much more besides. You can read his first report from the camino here. If he and the wifi hold up, he'll be back soon with Episode Three.", "tags": ["UK news", "Walking holidays", "Spain"], "title": "A quarter of the camino through Spain"},{"date": "2012-11-30T10:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If it still felt like late summer in Andalucia, by the time the camino reached Extremadura it was definitely autumn.The Sierra Morena around the town of Monesterio is famous for the quality of its pata negra jamon iberico \u2013 extremely expensive mountain cured ham. The camino passes through 'dehesa' country, where pastureland is quite thickly planted with a variety of different oak trees. At this time of the year, the oaks in the dehesa are dropping their acorns, and the many black pigs that range freely are eating them up, getting ready to become the delicious \u2013 and hugely expensive \u2013 cured ham jam\u00f3n ib\u00e9rico. Monesterio is largely dependent on jam\u00f3n for its exployment. So important is it to the town that they have a special bank holiday on the Dia del Jam\u00f3n every September. There's even a newly opened very smart Museo del Jam\u00f3n, which shows the life cycle of the black Iberian pigs, and of the various different varieties of oak that feed them. There's a special section on the traditional ritual of the matanza, where friends and families would gather together to slaughter a pig, and the day would be spent both feasting on the bits that need eating immediately and preparing the various other parts of the pig for conserving \u2013 for sausages, jam\u00f3n, black pudding etc \u2013 so that nothing was wasted.After a couple of days in the dehesa, the camino slowly slopes towards the plains again. As you leave pig country you find yourself once more surrounded by olive groves and vines, and arrive in Fuente de Cantos. The town was bashed about a bit by the French during the Peninsular war, and is also the birthplace of the painter Zurbaran. The pilgrim albergue is an extremely comfortable former convent of San Francisco, and in the former chapel is an exhibition dedicated to Zurbaran \u2013 you have to get past the exhibition's very fierce custodian, who is not keen on visitors. Although there are none of his paintings here, we will find an altarpiece of his tomorrow, in Zafra.Zafra is a delightful town, where half the population seems to be permanently chatting on the streets, or enjoying the many tapas bars and restaurants. As well as the convent where the (rather dark) Zurbaran altarpiece can be found, there is also a fabulous mediaeval castle which is now a parador. Paradors are the state run chain of luxury hotels that was set up in the 1920s to preserve some of Spain's finest historical buildings. The one in Zafra is a 14th Century fortress, but inside it is more like a renaissance palace, with a dazzling white marble central courtyard. Crossing the plain to Merida you take the Via de la Plata Roman road that runs more or less due north from here all the way to Astorga, 750km off. Plata is apparently derived from the Arabic word balat, or paved road, and not from the Latin for silver. Just north of Zafra you pass Los Santos de Maimona, where the church has a remarkable Puerta del Perdon or Door of Forgiveness. Along the road the olive harvest was in full swing, with trailer-loads trundling off to be processed. The plain is wide and flat and largely without shade for 70km between Zafra and Merida. Merida itself is another delight. Established by Augustus, it was the capital of the Roman province of Lusitania, and was briefly a Visigothic capital of Spain, before being taken over by the Moors. Pilgrims enter the town by crossing the Guadiana river over a half mile long bridge, which, it is claimed, was the longest bridge in the Roman Empire. Other Roman remains in the town include a still functioning theatre, an amphitheatre, a circus, a lovely temple of Diana and a triumphal arch of Trajan.After eight days walking, about 220km out from Seville, Merida seemed like a good place to take a day off from the camino and amble around some Roman remains \u2013 and some bustling streets and bars.Wifi in rural Spain can be intermittent, or worse, but further updates are hoped for, either here or via @geltsdale on TwitterAlan Sykes is the Guardian Northerner's arts expert and much more besides. You can read his first report from the camino here. If he and the wifi hold up, he'll be back soon with Episode Three.", "tags": ["UK news", "Walking holidays", "Spain"], "title": "A quarter of the camino through Spain"},{"date": "2012-12-04T13:59:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Recently I made a shocking discovery about the Spanish: they have no word for serendipity. Or at least not yet.While the Spaniards have in chiripa a nifty noun that comes close \u2013 it refers to a \"lucky break\" \u2013 their dictionary still lacks a single term that does all the heavy lifting of our own serendipity.Except this is not quite true. Hop online and you find there is a word in Spanish very like serendipity: its serendipia. And we are not talking about some left-field term here. A Google search brings up 333,000 hits.There is even a (Spanish) Wikipedia entry for the Spanish word that provides not only a definition \u2013 identical to ours \u2013 but also a full history of its use since Horace Walpole coined it in 1754.So what's going on? Is there a Spanish version of serendipity or not? Well, yes and no. Because it turns out that serendipia is currently in linguistic limbo while it awaits official approval from the Real Academia Espa\u00f1ola.The RAE is the body charged with keeping the Spanish language in check in much the same way that the Acad\u00e9mie fran\u00e7aise does for French. And until Spain's royal language academy pulls out its wax seal for serendipia, the word remains out in the cold.I only became aware of this when the RAE took the unprecedented step of holding their weekly meeting in public. The academy's members usually meet in camera in Madrid; recently, however, they honoured the bicentenary of the signing of Spain's key 1812 constitution by meeting in C\u00e1diz and invited 250 guests. Much of the event was taken up with a discussion about who should fill the vacant seats on their committee. But there followed an ardent debate about which words had earned the honour of appearing in the academy dictionary. One of these was \u2013 you guessed it \u2013 serendipia.Several members of the RAE were plumping hard for our friend. Unfortunately, their colleagues were unable to decide on either the merits of the word or its exact meaning. The debate ended with the academy's director promising to \"analyse the documentation\".To think: without the internet, I would never have known that Spanish has no word for happy accidents.Let's hope serendipia gets official recognition soon.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: Hoping for serendipity"},{"date": "2012-11-30T10:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If it still felt like late summer in Andalucia, by the time the camino reached Extremadura it was definitely autumn.The Sierra Morena around the town of Monesterio is famous for the quality of its pata negra jamon iberico \u2013 extremely expensive mountain cured ham. The camino passes through 'dehesa' country, where pastureland is quite thickly planted with a variety of different oak trees. At this time of the year, the oaks in the dehesa are dropping their acorns, and the many black pigs that range freely are eating them up, getting ready to become the delicious \u2013 and hugely expensive \u2013 cured ham jam\u00f3n ib\u00e9rico. Monesterio is largely dependent on jam\u00f3n for its exployment. So important is it to the town that they have a special bank holiday on the Dia del Jam\u00f3n every September. There's even a newly opened very smart Museo del Jam\u00f3n, which shows the life cycle of the black Iberian pigs, and of the various different varieties of oak that feed them. There's a special section on the traditional ritual of the matanza, where friends and families would gather together to slaughter a pig, and the day would be spent both feasting on the bits that need eating immediately and preparing the various other parts of the pig for conserving \u2013 for sausages, jam\u00f3n, black pudding etc \u2013 so that nothing was wasted.After a couple of days in the dehesa, the camino slowly slopes towards the plains again. As you leave pig country you find yourself once more surrounded by olive groves and vines, and arrive in Fuente de Cantos. The town was bashed about a bit by the French during the Peninsular war, and is also the birthplace of the painter Zurbaran. The pilgrim albergue is an extremely comfortable former convent of San Francisco, and in the former chapel is an exhibition dedicated to Zurbaran \u2013 you have to get past the exhibition's very fierce custodian, who is not keen on visitors. Although there are none of his paintings here, we will find an altarpiece of his tomorrow, in Zafra.Zafra is a delightful town, where half the population seems to be permanently chatting on the streets, or enjoying the many tapas bars and restaurants. As well as the convent where the (rather dark) Zurbaran altarpiece can be found, there is also a fabulous mediaeval castle which is now a parador. Paradors are the state run chain of luxury hotels that was set up in the 1920s to preserve some of Spain's finest historical buildings. The one in Zafra is a 14th Century fortress, but inside it is more like a renaissance palace, with a dazzling white marble central courtyard. Crossing the plain to Merida you take the Via de la Plata Roman road that runs more or less due north from here all the way to Astorga, 750km off. Plata is apparently derived from the Arabic word balat, or paved road, and not from the Latin for silver. Just north of Zafra you pass Los Santos de Maimona, where the church has a remarkable Puerta del Perdon or Door of Forgiveness. Along the road the olive harvest was in full swing, with trailer-loads trundling off to be processed. The plain is wide and flat and largely without shade for 70km between Zafra and Merida. Merida itself is another delight. Established by Augustus, it was the capital of the Roman province of Lusitania, and was briefly a Visigothic capital of Spain, before being taken over by the Moors. Pilgrims enter the town by crossing the Guadiana river over a half mile long bridge, which, it is claimed, was the longest bridge in the Roman Empire. Other Roman remains in the town include a still functioning theatre, an amphitheatre, a circus, a lovely temple of Diana and a triumphal arch of Trajan.After eight days walking, about 220km out from Seville, Merida seemed like a good place to take a day off from the camino and amble around some Roman remains \u2013 and some bustling streets and bars.Wifi in rural Spain can be intermittent, or worse, but further updates are hoped for, either here or via @geltsdale on TwitterAlan Sykes is the Guardian Northerner's arts expert and much more besides. You can read his first report from the camino here. If he and the wifi hold up, he'll be back soon with Episode Three.", "tags": ["UK news", "Walking holidays", "Spain"], "title": "A quarter of the camino through Spain"},{"date": "2012-12-04T13:59:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Recently I made a shocking discovery about the Spanish: they have no word for serendipity. Or at least not yet.While the Spaniards have in chiripa a nifty noun that comes close \u2013 it refers to a \"lucky break\" \u2013 their dictionary still lacks a single term that does all the heavy lifting of our own serendipity.Except this is not quite true. Hop online and you find there is a word in Spanish very like serendipity: its serendipia. And we are not talking about some left-field term here. A Google search brings up 333,000 hits.There is even a (Spanish) Wikipedia entry for the Spanish word that provides not only a definition \u2013 identical to ours \u2013 but also a full history of its use since Horace Walpole coined it in 1754.So what's going on? Is there a Spanish version of serendipity or not? Well, yes and no. Because it turns out that serendipia is currently in linguistic limbo while it awaits official approval from the Real Academia Espa\u00f1ola.The RAE is the body charged with keeping the Spanish language in check in much the same way that the Acad\u00e9mie fran\u00e7aise does for French. And until Spain's royal language academy pulls out its wax seal for serendipia, the word remains out in the cold.I only became aware of this when the RAE took the unprecedented step of holding their weekly meeting in public. The academy's members usually meet in camera in Madrid; recently, however, they honoured the bicentenary of the signing of Spain's key 1812 constitution by meeting in C\u00e1diz and invited 250 guests. Much of the event was taken up with a discussion about who should fill the vacant seats on their committee. But there followed an ardent debate about which words had earned the honour of appearing in the academy dictionary. One of these was \u2013 you guessed it \u2013 serendipia.Several members of the RAE were plumping hard for our friend. Unfortunately, their colleagues were unable to decide on either the merits of the word or its exact meaning. The debate ended with the academy's director promising to \"analyse the documentation\".To think: without the internet, I would never have known that Spanish has no word for happy accidents.Let's hope serendipia gets official recognition soon.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: Hoping for serendipity"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Year-round sunshine and high temperatures, lifestyle choices ranging from the packed Costas to party destinations such as Barcelona and Ibiza, or sedate and relaxing retirement hotspots such as Menorca on the Balearics \u2013 why would you not move to Spain?Well, the economy may be one reason not to go. But if you have a secure income and want to benefit from a country with widespread English, easy budget airline access to and from the UK's regional airports, plus houses for sale at 1990s prices, it appears compelling.UK expats can be found almost everywhere, but congregate densely in three areas: Andalucia in the south, so diverse it includes full English breakfast resorts such as Torremolinos alongside mountain retreats that inspired Ernest Hemingway and Picasso; the Balearic island of Mallorca, all glitzy marinas and celebrity villas for the likes of Michael Douglas and Michael Schumacher; and the Valencia region \u2013 think Costa Blanca and Benidorm for mass tourism or more sedate lifestyles in the city of Valencia itself.EU residents do not require visas to move permanently to Spain, but within three months of arriving you should secure N\u00famero de Identidad de Extranjero (a foreign identity number known as NIE) and a Tarjeta de Residencia or residency card.Some banks require a minimum deposit of up to \u20ac1,200 to open an account; a few insist on minimum balances at the end of each calendar month.You will still receive your UK state pension providing you inform the Department for Work and Pensions and have paid appropriate national insurance contributions, and it will increase in line with pensions paid in the UK. You may be eligible for other UK benefits, detailed on Gov.UK, providing you meet criteria. Ironically, this also includes winter fuel payments to older emigrants.Before leaving apply for form S1, which you\u00a0need to present to a local Spanish doctor's surgery or hospital. You should then be treated on the same basis as a Spanish-born resident. You should also register on your town hall's Padr\u00f3 Municipal d'Habitants. Beware: some cash-strapped hospitals now refuse to treat migrants who have not formally registered.What airport will you arrive at? Malaga airport for Andalucia; Palma for Mallorca. For the Valencia region and beyond the key airports are Murcia, Alicante, Valencia and Barcelona.Local currency The euro. \u20ac1 is divided into 100 cents. On 12 November 2012 \u20ac1 was worth 79p and \u00a31 was worth \u20ac1.25.How do you spot a cab? They're often black with yellow doors.Price of a hotel room Hotels are struggling \u2013 some three-stars are just \u20ac25 a night and five-star hotels have 45% discounts out of season. Hotels.com put the average cost for the first six months of 2012 at \u00a386.Price of a house A townhouse is on average \u20ac200,000.Price of a pint of milk 45p (average price is 80c a litre).What language do most people speak? Spanish, and across the north-east Catalan.What tax will you pay? Non-residents pay tax on any income arising in Spain \u2013 business dividend, bank interest, wages or property income. Most income tax ranges from 28%-45%. Typical self-employed monthly tax is \u20ac300, according to ExpatArrivals.com.How long will it take to send a letter home? Three days.\u2022 Spain has more than 8,000km of beaches.\u2022 Bullfights can now be shown live on Spanish TV again, following a six-year ban.\u2022 Spain is five times bigger than the UK, with only two-thirds of its population.\u2022 Tapas were originally bread slices used to cover sherry glasses between sips.\u2022 In the Spanish-dubbed version of Fawlty Towers, Manuel is an Italian waiter from Naples.Paul and Dominique Clough, in their 50s, moved from London to Mallorca 19 years ago. They were drawn by the climate and their penchant for outdoor living. They now have a daughter, Elena, aged 11, who was born on the island. They live in a refurbished fisherman's cottage at Portixol just outside the capital, Palma.\"What we love about Mallorca is that it has everything \u2013\u00a0mountains, countryside and beaches underpinned with a sophisticated infrastructure, which is really important for year-round living,\" Dominique, a public relations officer, says. \"We love the lifestyle and the opportunity to practice sports all year round, especially in the mild winter months when we still have plenty of sunshine.\"Paul has an engineering firm which repairs and maintains yachts. \"It's very easy to meet expats on the island. The British are one of the most faithful visitor groups so there are plenty of associations, clubs and places to meet like-minded people,\" he says.\u00a0In common with many parts of Spain there is an English-language newspaper, the Majorca Daily Bulletin, and there are two English-speaking radio stations.Dominique says there is one essential for any would-be migrants: \"Before they move, learn Spanish so they can integrate better. It will also be essential if they intend to work.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Spain? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Spain\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Spain in the comments section. \u00a0", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to Spain"},{"date": "2013-03-11T13:16:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain might be Britain's favourite overseas holiday destination but finding the hidden gems between the famous Costas, and the tourist-filled city centres can be a challenge. So, for the second in our series of live Q&As on Europe's most popular countries, we've brought together a panel of experts to help you plan your perfect Spain holiday. Between them the experts have travelled the length and breadth of the country, so whether you are looking for inspiration \u2013 perhaps you're keen to explore a new area \u2013 or are after specific advice on a particular city or resort, post your questions in the comments below and the panel will do their best to answer as many as possible. And if you're a regular visitor or live in Spain, feel free to join in the chat \u2013 we'd love you to share your insider tips. The experts will be online from 1-2pm GMT on Tuesday 12 March.James Sturcke is a former Guardian staff reporter who moved to the mountains of La Rioja, in northern Spain, three years ago. He now runs his own press and commercial photography business\u2013 a job through which he has got to know some of northern Spain's best chefs, hotels and places to visit. He's developed a particularly extensive knowledge of Rioja bodegas.Catherine Ferron is a partner of Casas Cantabricas, an independent tour operator specialising in northern Spain. Based in Cantabria for over 27 years, she has travelled all over the country is particularly knowledgeable on Cantabria, Asturias, La Rioja and Galicia. Co-author of Buen Provecho, Casas Cantabricas' own restaurant guide, her main passion is gastronomy and wine, culture and customs \u2013 but she can also direct you to undiscovered beaches and little corners of the country.Andrew Allen is a Barcelona-based journalist. He knows the city well but also regularly travels to inland Catalonia, the Costa Brava and the villages of Aragon. Family activities are one of his specialities as well as architecture and property.Joe Cawley is a freelance travel writer and author living in the hills of Tenerife with his wife and two children. Having moved to the Canary Islands in 1991, he's since written many travel features on all seven islands, covering various aspects from spa reviews to family and adventure travel. Joe also co-runs online Tenerife travel guide mydestination.com/tenerife and wrote Kindle book More Ketchup than Salsa: Confessions of a Tenerife Barman.Duncan Rhodes lives in Barcelona and is the founder of urbantravelblog.com, an online magazine specialising in insider city guides, and barcelona-life.com, which offers tips on sightseeing, culture, eating, drinking and partying in the city.Tim Murray Walker has lived in Andalucia since 2007. He and his wife are the owners of Casa Olea,  a boutique B&B nestled in the Sierra Subbeticas mountains, half way between Granada and Cordoba. Before moving there, they travelled extensively throughout Andalucia looking for the ideal location to set up their B&B. The areas he knows best are Cordoba, Granada and Jaen provinces, along with his two favourite stretches of Andalucia's coastline \u2013 Cabo de Gata national park (near Almeria) and the Costa de la Luz (Tarifa to Cadiz).Sarah Serakalala is a South African living in Madrid. She is the founder of the website cheapinmadrid.com, a city guide giving tips on entertainment and eating out on budget in the city.Javier Bartolom\u00e9 was born in Madrid and spent his childhood holidays at locations all over Spain. In 2007 he founded Away from the crowds \u2013 a company specialising in cycling and walking holidays in Spain \u2013\u00a0with his brother, and has a local's knowledge on where to find special locations away from the tourist hotspots.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Summer holidays", "Travel", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Spain holidays - live Q&A"},{"date": "2013-06-21T20:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are several reasons why Extremadura is the part of Spain least visited by the British, and being hundreds of miles from the nearest beach is one only of them. The parched and infertile flatlands have long been a byword in Spain for brutal poverty. Centuries ago, they were the recruiting grounds for the conquistadores escaping for a better life, of sorts, in Latin America. Today, with the construction boom over, unemployment has reached 33%, and whole villages sit idle.My Madrile\u00f1o friends (I lived there in the 1980s) always recommend trips out to Toledo and Segovia, of course. Cuenca, maybe. But Extremadura? On a bicycle? In the summer heat? I'm heading, they tell me, down Spain's road to nowhere.But the starting point for our week's cycling tour, Oropesa, 100 miles west of Madrid, is a charming pueblo of whitewashed houses and cobbled lanes, and rather more bustling than the economic gloom would suggest. It is dominated by a 15th-century castle, now a state-run Parador and my luxury home for the night. This is cycling for the middle-aged and middle-class. A taxi takes your bags ahead to the next palace hotel, while you enjoy a soft pedal through country lanes.Well, that's how I sold it to my cycling partner, Neil. I ride my bike to work most days, about a 12-mile round-trip. I'm 51 and progressively podgier. Neil's not a cyclist, but he's only 43 and jogs regularly. This is the sort of activity-lite trip designed for people like us.And on day one, it is. As we set off, the temperature's a perfect 25C, with a cooling breeze on our backs. The countryside is greener than I could have hoped for (Extremadura, like Britain, has had almost its wettest ever spring) and the distant mountains are snowcapped. The roadside verges are ablaze with poppies and lavender.Well, that was the first 30km, anyway. Those mountains, asks Neil, we're not actually going up them, are we? No, I reply, we can't be. This cycle tour is graded \"moderate\", just one notch above \"leisure\". But another 40km later, most of it uphill and we have invented numerous and unprintable words to describe our saddle-sore backsides. Neil is convinced a Japanese camera crew is secretly following us, filming a suicidal endurance test, taking Banzai bets on who will crack first. I keep mumbling that I'm sure the brochure said something about cycling for softies \u2026Extremadura, we've learned, is not flat, or at least not the bit our route takes us through. When we arrive in Jarandilla, exhausted but not especially elated, the Parador (like most, either a converted medieval castle or a convent) is a blessed relief. A few years back I stayed in the one in Ronda, magnificently located on the edge of the gorge, but charmless inside. North of M\u00e1laga, the one in Antequera was little better than a Travelodge, and the one in Granada just too sniffy and pricey. But those in Extremadura are the chain's finest. Curiously they are all rated four-star, when by most standards they are evidently five-star-plus. Dinner is in vaulted gothic or lavishly baroque rooms and sets you back under \u00a320 a head, with wine at under \u00a33 a glass (and as little as \u00a31 in the bars outside). Being far from the tourist trail, Extremadura sets its prices to suit Spanish visitors, not people from northern Europeans.Next day, with the Almod\u00f3var-esque receptionist exclaiming, \"No lo creo!\" (I don't believe it!) at our route, and with our bottoms on the verge of a nervous breakdown, we set off for Plasencia, nearly 60km away, on back roads.Our route to Plasencia takes us hurtling down the mountainside and past river gorges. We realise the designers of this route torture you (a little) at first, then start rewarding you with treats. Plasencia is a revelation. Given the tens of millions of foreign visitors Spain welcomes every year almost nothing is \"undiscovered\". Yet maybe this really is it. A walled market town, unspoilt by tourism, with a lively market square, and the most stunning Parador.But Plasencia is just the taster. The Plaza Mayor in Trujillo, two days later, is breathtaking and on a par with the Piazza del Campo in Siena, yet virtually deserted. Our final stopping point, C\u00e1ceres, is a genuine Unesco world heritage site. And all are virtually Brit-free. Only after three days did we come across another British couple, birdwatchers heading to the Monfrag\u00fce national park for the cranes of Spain, who live mainly on its plains.On the frontline of the Spain's reconquista, the fortified cities are a mix of Moorish and Christian influences \u2013 they fell in and out of each other's hands over the centuries. Later, the booty the conquistadores brought back from Latin America created towns and cities that, at their time, were the most magnificent in Europe. Palacios, conventos and iglesias virtually topple over each other. In Trujillo, the vast hulk of the Moorish castle lies almost abandoned. It's a steal at only \u20ac1.40 entry, although you might have to wake the ticket man up to get one.But the warring history of the region and its relative poverty has left it depleted of the pleasant little roadside villages that are such a boon for the casual holiday cyclist. Trujillo and Caceres sit proudly atop outcrops on otherwise near barren plains. We trudged to Trujillo along a new road of commendably high quality, but cursed the cars speeding past uncomfortably fast. Stop-offs are few and far between, and carrying large amounts of water is essential. On hot days, we learned that an early start was vital, so we could hit the next Parador by 2pm and collapse into a siesta.And don't forget to bring the lycra. The Mamil (middle-aged man in lycra) look has never in the past appealed, but like pilgrims on their knees wearily reaching Santiago de Compostela, the sight that lifted our hearts most as we came into Plasencia was a cycle shop. Yes, they sell padding ...", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Cycling", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "Cycling (with knobs on) in Extremadura, Spain"},{"date": "2013-08-02T07:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I went to Spain for a short holiday last week. I was hoping to get a break from science but I failed.The weather was beautifully sunny and I spent many an hour in or near the water at the little coastal village of Cadaqu\u00e9s. I read, swam, strolled, laughed with my kids, took a few photographs and did nothing. Lots of nothing.Just the ticket for unwinding after another draining year of teaching and research. But I couldn't quite get science out of my mind. Physics in particular was bothering me, even though my main interests these days are more biochemical.In part I was preoccupied by a public lecture that I will be giving in the autumn on X-ray diffraction. This is a powerful technique for working out the structures of molecules but it's hard to explain to people because we don't have everyday experience of diffraction phenomena.Diffraction occurs when waves \u2014 whether made of water or light or X-rays or whatever \u2014 encounter a sharp edge or a small opening. When they do, the wave fronts bend around the edge or fan out as they pass through the narrow aperture, becoming distinctly curved in the process.At school your physics teacher may have demonstrated diffraction using a specially designed wave tank. I thought I might be able to see the effect in the wild, so to speak, by watching the waves of the Mediterranean as they pulsed into the rocky shore at Cadaqu\u00e9s. But as you can see from the video that I took, it's not so easy. My experiments lacked control, since the sea was stirred in different directions by the wind and most of the rocky obstacles interrupting their paths were irregular. The reflection of the water waves by the rocks is fairly obvious, but I couldn't convince myself I had seen any diffraction. The video is at least rather soothing.I will have to look elsewhere for examples of diffraction but I realised as I trawled through my holiday snaps that I had captured plenty of other wave phenomena. You can't really get away from physics when you go outside.First off there is the long-established principle that light wave travels in straight lines (at least when not in the vicinity of very massive objects), visible \u2014 just \u2014\u00a0as the suns rays burst though gaps in the morning cloud.Of course the path of light waves can be bent markedly when they are reflected. This was in evidence (though the rays themselves were not visible) as the colours of the evening sky bounced off the waters of the bay, the image broken and flickering because of the waves rippling across the liquid surface.The clouds in that photograph, and their reflection, are tinged with sunset reds and oranges because of the way that the air of the atmosphere scatters light. This effect \u2014\u00a0Rayleigh scattering\u00a0\u2014 occurs because the electromagnetic waves of the sun's rays have much longer wavelengths (the distance between successive crests - around 500 nm for visible light) than the\u00a0atoms and molecules (about 0.3 nm) that they collide with in the Earth's atmosphere.The scattering \u2014 deflection of the rays into all directions \u2014 is strongest for shorter wavelengths which are at the blue end of the spectrum. That's why the sky is blue during the day: what you see is the light from the sun that has been most strongly scattered down towards the surface of the planet as it streams though the air above your head.The sun itself is a tad yellowish if you dare to look directly at it during the day (not recommended) because a proportion of the blue light in the visible spectrum has been removed.This effect is much more pronounced at sunrise and sunset since the light then passes though a much greater length of atmosphere to travel to your eye (think about the angles \u2014 I reckon it's about 600 times more). This means that much more blue is scattered out leaving a deeper red-orange hue.The scattering effect varies as you look up, away from the sun. As you lift your line of sight, the illuminating light is more scattered rather than transmitted. You can just about see all the colours of the spectrum as you tilt your head to the blue above, though seeing the greenish tinges merging with the yellow is a bit of a challenge for me. I may be a bit colour-blind.These effects can also be seen when the moon rises because the light it reflects from the sun also has to pass through a thick section of atmosphere.But as the moon rises higher into the night sky, the coloration disappears and it turns pale.Here's a good question: why isn't it blue?I could easily have broadened my scientific interests in Spain to include chemistry and biology. My son and daughter were both stung by jellyfish. Was that defence or attack? Why did their skin redden and blister shortly afterwards? And why did the application of vinegar soothe the pain?But that would have been a bit too close to home. After all, I was on holiday.@Stephen_Curry\u00a0is a professor of structural biology at Imperial College.\u00a0", "tags": ["Physics", "Science", "Spain holidays"], "title": "The physics of Spain | Stephen Curry"},{"date": "2013-08-02T07:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I went to Spain for a short holiday last week. I was hoping to get a break from science but I failed.The weather was beautifully sunny and I spent many an hour in or near the water at the little coastal village of Cadaqu\u00e9s. I read, swam, strolled, laughed with my kids, took a few photographs and did nothing. Lots of nothing.Just the ticket for unwinding after another draining year of teaching and research. But I couldn't quite get science out of my mind. Physics in particular was bothering me, even though my main interests these days are more biochemical.In part I was preoccupied by a public lecture that I will be giving in the autumn on X-ray diffraction. This is a powerful technique for working out the structures of molecules but it's hard to explain to people because we don't have everyday experience of diffraction phenomena.Diffraction occurs when waves \u2014 whether made of water or light or X-rays or whatever \u2014 encounter a sharp edge or a small opening. When they do, the wave fronts bend around the edge or fan out as they pass through the narrow aperture, becoming distinctly curved in the process.At school your physics teacher may have demonstrated diffraction using a specially designed wave tank. I thought I might be able to see the effect in the wild, so to speak, by watching the waves of the Mediterranean as they pulsed into the rocky shore at Cadaqu\u00e9s. But as you can see from the video that I took, it's not so easy. My experiments lacked control, since the sea was stirred in different directions by the wind and most of the rocky obstacles interrupting their paths were irregular. The reflection of the water waves by the rocks is fairly obvious, but I couldn't convince myself I had seen any diffraction. The video is at least rather soothing.I will have to look elsewhere for examples of diffraction but I realised as I trawled through my holiday snaps that I had captured plenty of other wave phenomena. You can't really get away from physics when you go outside.First off there is the long-established principle that light wave travels in straight lines (at least when not in the vicinity of very massive objects), visible \u2014 just \u2014\u00a0as the suns rays burst though gaps in the morning cloud.Of course the path of light waves can be bent markedly when they are reflected. This was in evidence (though the rays themselves were not visible) as the colours of the evening sky bounced off the waters of the bay, the image broken and flickering because of the waves rippling across the liquid surface.The clouds in that photograph, and their reflection, are tinged with sunset reds and oranges because of the way that the air of the atmosphere scatters light. This effect \u2014\u00a0Rayleigh scattering\u00a0\u2014 occurs because the electromagnetic waves of the sun's rays have much longer wavelengths (the distance between successive crests - around 500 nm for visible light) than the\u00a0atoms and molecules (about 0.3 nm) that they collide with in the Earth's atmosphere.The scattering \u2014 deflection of the rays into all directions \u2014 is strongest for shorter wavelengths which are at the blue end of the spectrum. That's why the sky is blue during the day: what you see is the light from the sun that has been most strongly scattered down towards the surface of the planet as it streams though the air above your head.The sun itself is a tad yellowish if you dare to look directly at it during the day (not recommended) because a proportion of the blue light in the visible spectrum has been removed.This effect is much more pronounced at sunrise and sunset since the light then passes though a much greater length of atmosphere to travel to your eye (think about the angles \u2014 I reckon it's about 600 times more). This means that much more blue is scattered out leaving a deeper red-orange hue.The scattering effect varies as you look up, away from the sun. As you lift your line of sight, the illuminating light is more scattered rather than transmitted. You can just about see all the colours of the spectrum as you tilt your head to the blue above, though seeing the greenish tinges merging with the yellow is a bit of a challenge for me. I may be a bit colour-blind.These effects can also be seen when the moon rises because the light it reflects from the sun also has to pass through a thick section of atmosphere.But as the moon rises higher into the night sky, the coloration disappears and it turns pale.Here's a good question: why isn't it blue?I could easily have broadened my scientific interests in Spain to include chemistry and biology. My son and daughter were both stung by jellyfish. Was that defence or attack? Why did their skin redden and blister shortly afterwards? And why did the application of vinegar soothe the pain?But that would have been a bit too close to home. After all, I was on holiday.@Stephen_Curry\u00a0is a professor of structural biology at Imperial College.\u00a0", "tags": ["Physics", "Science", "Spain holidays"], "title": "The physics of Spain | Stephen Curry"},{"date": "2013-09-28T20:30:30Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If Scotland needs a lesson on how to save an endangered feline, it need only look to the little town of Santa Elena, in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain. Biologists there have overseen a remarkable conservation enterprise: the Olivilla captive breeding centre for the Iberian lynx. Dozens of these distinctive, beautiful creatures have been bred here, watched over by staff working in a control room that has enough television monitors to do justice to a particle accelerator. This is cat care at its most sophisticated.Adult lynxes, which are about a metre long and weigh around 10kg \u2013 twice the size of a wildcat \u2013 have been reintroduced to the surrounding hills. Ten years ago, there were fewer than 100 Iberian lynxes left on the planet. Habitat destruction, loss of prey and indiscriminate trapping by landowners was propelling Lynx pardinus towards extinction. Today there are at least 300 of them, and their numbers continue to rise. Call it the Lynx effect.The implication is clear. Endangered felines can be saved \u2013 although we should be under no illusions about the cost involved. As lynx conservationists explained during my visit to Santa Elena, around \u00a330m was spent setting up the project, money raised mostly by the Andaluc\u00edan regional government, and which funds captive breeding and also pays for teams of energetic young conservationists to trap and release animals in areas around the town.It is a price tag that makes Scottish conservationists wince. At present, a mere \u00a3200,000 has been pledged by Scottish Natural Heritage to save the Highland wildcat.A promise to seek Heritage Lottery funding has also been made, but no serious money has been talked about for a captive breeding programme, which many believe may be critical to wildcat recovery plans.Nor does the Scottish wildcat help its own cause. It is nocturnal, shy and extremely elusive. Assessing its status is therefore difficult. Only a few dozen may be left \u2013 or there could be as many as a few hundred. Nor is it easy to determine how much hybridisation has occurred between the Scottish wildcat, a close relative of the European wildcat, and the domestic tabby, a cousin of the near-eastern wildcat, a separate subspecies. Scottish National Heritage proposes that this data be uncovered as a matter of priority. Other conservationists argue that time is now too short for that. Only a captive breeding programme can save the wildcat now, they say. Others retort that such actions, based on scanty data, could do more harm than good to the wildcat.In fact, it is clear conservation groups cannot do this alone. They need proper government support to trace and trap Highland wildcats, to build breeding centres, and to breed them in facilities that are clean and safe. Areas for reintroduction will have to be home to sufficient prey to sustain a wildcat population, while local landowners need to be happy about their presence nearby. The lesson from Andaluc\u00eda suggests this can be done \u2013 but only by spending millions.Unfortunately the Scottish government has shown no sign that it understands the proper dimensions of the wildlife crisis that it faces, although it is the only agency that possesses the resources \u2013 and the jurisdiction \u2013 to save the Highland wildcat. Andaluc\u00eda decided it was worth spending millions to save the Iberian lynx. Scotland's leaders need to decide, very quickly, if they want to follow suit.", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Animals", "World news", "Endangered species", "Wildlife", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "How Spain saved the lynx"},{"date": "2013-08-02T07:15:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I went to Spain for a short holiday last week. I was hoping to get a break from science but I failed.The weather was beautifully sunny and I spent many an hour in or near the water at the little coastal village of Cadaqu\u00e9s. I read, swam, strolled, laughed with my kids, took a few photographs and did nothing. Lots of nothing.Just the ticket for unwinding after another draining year of teaching and research. But I couldn't quite get science out of my mind. Physics in particular was bothering me, even though my main interests these days are more biochemical.In part I was preoccupied by a public lecture that I will be giving in the autumn on X-ray diffraction. This is a powerful technique for working out the structures of molecules but it's hard to explain to people because we don't have everyday experience of diffraction phenomena.Diffraction occurs when waves \u2014 whether made of water or light or X-rays or whatever \u2014 encounter a sharp edge or a small opening. When they do, the wave fronts bend around the edge or fan out as they pass through the narrow aperture, becoming distinctly curved in the process.At school your physics teacher may have demonstrated diffraction using a specially designed wave tank. I thought I might be able to see the effect in the wild, so to speak, by watching the waves of the Mediterranean as they pulsed into the rocky shore at Cadaqu\u00e9s. But as you can see from the video that I took, it's not so easy. My experiments lacked control, since the sea was stirred in different directions by the wind and most of the rocky obstacles interrupting their paths were irregular. The reflection of the water waves by the rocks is fairly obvious, but I couldn't convince myself I had seen any diffraction. The video is at least rather soothing.I will have to look elsewhere for examples of diffraction but I realised as I trawled through my holiday snaps that I had captured plenty of other wave phenomena. You can't really get away from physics when you go outside.First off there is the long-established principle that light wave travels in straight lines (at least when not in the vicinity of very massive objects), visible \u2014 just \u2014\u00a0as the suns rays burst though gaps in the morning cloud.Of course the path of light waves can be bent markedly when they are reflected. This was in evidence (though the rays themselves were not visible) as the colours of the evening sky bounced off the waters of the bay, the image broken and flickering because of the waves rippling across the liquid surface.The clouds in that photograph, and their reflection, are tinged with sunset reds and oranges because of the way that the air of the atmosphere scatters light. This effect \u2014\u00a0Rayleigh scattering\u00a0\u2014 occurs because the electromagnetic waves of the sun's rays have much longer wavelengths (the distance between successive crests - around 500 nm for visible light) than the\u00a0atoms and molecules (about 0.3 nm) that they collide with in the Earth's atmosphere.The scattering \u2014 deflection of the rays into all directions \u2014 is strongest for shorter wavelengths which are at the blue end of the spectrum. That's why the sky is blue during the day: what you see is the light from the sun that has been most strongly scattered down towards the surface of the planet as it streams though the air above your head.The sun itself is a tad yellowish if you dare to look directly at it during the day (not recommended) because a proportion of the blue light in the visible spectrum has been removed.This effect is much more pronounced at sunrise and sunset since the light then passes though a much greater length of atmosphere to travel to your eye (think about the angles \u2014 I reckon it's about 600 times more). This means that much more blue is scattered out leaving a deeper red-orange hue.The scattering effect varies as you look up, away from the sun. As you lift your line of sight, the illuminating light is more scattered rather than transmitted. You can just about see all the colours of the spectrum as you tilt your head to the blue above, though seeing the greenish tinges merging with the yellow is a bit of a challenge for me. I may be a bit colour-blind.These effects can also be seen when the moon rises because the light it reflects from the sun also has to pass through a thick section of atmosphere.But as the moon rises higher into the night sky, the coloration disappears and it turns pale.Here's a good question: why isn't it blue?I could easily have broadened my scientific interests in Spain to include chemistry and biology. My son and daughter were both stung by jellyfish. Was that defence or attack? Why did their skin redden and blister shortly afterwards? And why did the application of vinegar soothe the pain?But that would have been a bit too close to home. After all, I was on holiday.@Stephen_Curry\u00a0is a professor of structural biology at Imperial College.\u00a0", "tags": ["Physics", "Science", "Spain holidays"], "title": "The physics of Spain | Stephen Curry"},{"date": "2013-09-28T20:30:30Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If Scotland needs a lesson on how to save an endangered feline, it need only look to the little town of Santa Elena, in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain. Biologists there have overseen a remarkable conservation enterprise: the Olivilla captive breeding centre for the Iberian lynx. Dozens of these distinctive, beautiful creatures have been bred here, watched over by staff working in a control room that has enough television monitors to do justice to a particle accelerator. This is cat care at its most sophisticated.Adult lynxes, which are about a metre long and weigh around 10kg \u2013 twice the size of a wildcat \u2013 have been reintroduced to the surrounding hills. Ten years ago, there were fewer than 100 Iberian lynxes left on the planet. Habitat destruction, loss of prey and indiscriminate trapping by landowners was propelling Lynx pardinus towards extinction. Today there are at least 300 of them, and their numbers continue to rise. Call it the Lynx effect.The implication is clear. Endangered felines can be saved \u2013 although we should be under no illusions about the cost involved. As lynx conservationists explained during my visit to Santa Elena, around \u00a330m was spent setting up the project, money raised mostly by the Andaluc\u00edan regional government, and which funds captive breeding and also pays for teams of energetic young conservationists to trap and release animals in areas around the town.It is a price tag that makes Scottish conservationists wince. At present, a mere \u00a3200,000 has been pledged by Scottish Natural Heritage to save the Highland wildcat.A promise to seek Heritage Lottery funding has also been made, but no serious money has been talked about for a captive breeding programme, which many believe may be critical to wildcat recovery plans.Nor does the Scottish wildcat help its own cause. It is nocturnal, shy and extremely elusive. Assessing its status is therefore difficult. Only a few dozen may be left \u2013 or there could be as many as a few hundred. Nor is it easy to determine how much hybridisation has occurred between the Scottish wildcat, a close relative of the European wildcat, and the domestic tabby, a cousin of the near-eastern wildcat, a separate subspecies. Scottish National Heritage proposes that this data be uncovered as a matter of priority. Other conservationists argue that time is now too short for that. Only a captive breeding programme can save the wildcat now, they say. Others retort that such actions, based on scanty data, could do more harm than good to the wildcat.In fact, it is clear conservation groups cannot do this alone. They need proper government support to trace and trap Highland wildcats, to build breeding centres, and to breed them in facilities that are clean and safe. Areas for reintroduction will have to be home to sufficient prey to sustain a wildcat population, while local landowners need to be happy about their presence nearby. The lesson from Andaluc\u00eda suggests this can be done \u2013 but only by spending millions.Unfortunately the Scottish government has shown no sign that it understands the proper dimensions of the wildlife crisis that it faces, although it is the only agency that possesses the resources \u2013 and the jurisdiction \u2013 to save the Highland wildcat. Andaluc\u00eda decided it was worth spending millions to save the Iberian lynx. Scotland's leaders need to decide, very quickly, if they want to follow suit.", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Animals", "World news", "Endangered species", "Wildlife", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "How Spain saved the lynx"},{"date": "2013-08-30T16:46:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Youth unemployment in Spain has reached a new high of 56.1%, a quarter of the 3.5 million under-25s jobless across the eurozone, according to the latest Eurostat figures.The number of young Spaniards belonging to what has become known as the lost generation is up 2% since June to 883,000. Only Greece has a higher percentage of young people out of work, at 62.9%.Among adult males, Spain has the highest unemployment at 25.3%, higher even than Greece. Despite the government's claims that the worst has passed and that employment reforms will encourage firms to hire, the figures suggest it will be a long time before any upturn in the economy is reflected in a declining jobless rate. With the holiday season coming to a close, the numbers are likely to rise as workers on seasonal contracts go back on the dole.With close to six million Spaniards out of work, unemployment is so entrenched that there was no political reaction to the latest figures, neither from government nor the opposition. Indeed, mentioning the economy at all has become virtually taboo across the political spectrum. Meanwhile, Spaniards and recent immigrants are deserting the country in search of work, with 500,000 leaving in 2012, 60,000 of them Spanish nationals, most of them to Latin America and Europe.The total number of unemployed across the eurozone is 19.2 million, 15,000 fewer than in June. Across the EU the figure was 26.7 million, down 33,000 from June. However, it has remained at a record rate of 12.1% for the fourth months. The overall rate across the eurozone is 11%, half a percentage point up on last year.Italy saw a small fall to 12%, while the lowest rates among member states are Austria (4.8%), Germany (5.3%) and Luxembourg (5.7%). The rate in the US is 7.4% and in Japan 3.8%.As the continent still grapples with the effects of the financial crisis five years on, a board member of the German central bank warned that the European financial system is still not equipped to cope with a bank failure of a similar magnitude to 2008's collapse of Lehman Brothers.\"If we had a Lehman 2.0 tomorrow, which I don't see, we still wouldn't hold the tools we designed to wind down banks globally effectively in our hands,\" said Andreas Dombret of Germany's Bundesbank.Some progress had been made and the system is now safer than in 2008, but implementation is slow, said Dombret, who is in charge of the financial stability portfolio on the German central bank's board.He added: \"More than anything, we have bought time with a number of unconventional measures. That's why financial markets are currently calm, but it doesn't have to stay like that forever.\"The bankruptcy of US investment bank Lehman plunged the global financial system into crisis, leading to a raft of new rules aimed at making banks' business less risky to avoid taxpayer-funded rescues.The European Central Bank's vow a year ago to do \"whatever it takes\" to preserve the single currency, the euro, took some heat out of the debt crisis, but it also eased pressure on struggling eurozone countries to reform, according to Dombret.", "tags": ["Unemployment and employment statistics", "Economics", "Spain", "Business", "Unemployment", "Society", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe"], "title": "Spain youth unemployment reaches record 56.1%"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:50:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has slumped 10 places to rank 40th in a global index of perceived official corruption after a spate of scandals hit its ruling centre-right party and the royal family, watchdog Transparency International (TI) said.The Corruption Perceptions Index for 2013 found Spain to be the second biggest loser of points along with Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Libya. The only country to tumble further was Syria, which is almost four years into a civil war.Spain's five-year economic slump, which has forced it to adopt tight austerity laws, exposed how cosy relations between politicians and construction magnates had fed a disastrous housing bubble.The former treasurer of the governing People's party (PP) told a judge he had channelled cash donations from construction magnates into leaders' pockets, and was found to have stashed \u20ac48m (\u00a340m) in Swiss bank accounts. I\u00f1aki Urdangarin, the king's son-in-law, was also charged this year with embezzling \u20ac6m in public funds.\"What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption\u00a0\u2026 It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector \u2013 politics, the royal family and companies \u2013 was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering,\" said Anne Koch, TI's director for Europe and Central Asia.The scandals also highlighted a lack of accountability in political parties and even the watchdogs charged with keeping them clean. This prompted lawmakers to react to public outrage and draw up Spain's first freedom of information law.Spain had been the only European Union nation without a law guaranteeing citizens a right to information on how public funds are spent, but Koch said the new law was inadequate.TI ranked 177 countries in 2013, placing New Zealand and Denmark joint first. Those two countries were also deemed the world's least corrupt in 2012, as well as Finland. Somalia, North Korea and Afghanistan again tied for last place.The Berlin-based institute measures perceptions of graft rather than actual levels because of the secrecy that surrounds most corrupt dealings. Greece remained the European Union state with the worst perceived level of corruption, although its four-point gain to 40 points helped it rise to 80th place from 94th in 2012.The biggest improver was Burma, which emerged from 49 years of military rule in 2011. The south-east Asian state gained six points, moving it up the rankings from 172 to 157.Among the large global economies, the United States ranked 19th and China 80th, both unchanged from last year. Russia improved slightly to joint 127th place, from a previous 133rd, and Japan slid one spot to 18.Allegations that leaders of Spain's PP, including prime minister Mariano Rajoy, took backhanders, and the investigation into a member of the royal family are particularly damaging to Spain's reputation as they involve such central institutions, according to Fernando Jim\u00e9nez, a lecturer in political sciences at Murcia University. \"The problem in Spain is the political reaction\u00a0\u2026 Very few people resign here,\" he said.He contrasted the Madrid government's slow response to the illegal financing scandal in the PP with Germany, where cabinet ministers stepped down after comparitively less serious allegations that they had plagiarised their academic theses decades earlier.On the same day the damning corruption figures were released, Madrid welcomed figures showing the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by a little under 2,500 in November - the first drop in that month since the current system was introduced in 1997. The decline provided further evidence that the Spanish economy might be picking up after more than two years of recession, which only ended in the third quarter.Spainhas around 4.8 million people out of work, representing about 26% of its total workforce. Only Greece has a higher unemployment rate in the 17-country eurozone.", "tags": ["Spain", "Corruption index and barometer", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Scandals force Spain down global corruption index"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:50:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has slumped 10 places to rank 40th in a global index of perceived official corruption after a spate of scandals hit its ruling centre-right party and the royal family, watchdog Transparency International (TI) said.The Corruption Perceptions Index for 2013 found Spain to be the second biggest loser of points along with Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Libya. The only country to tumble further was Syria, which is almost four years into a civil war.Spain's five-year economic slump, which has forced it to adopt tight austerity laws, exposed how cosy relations between politicians and construction magnates had fed a disastrous housing bubble.The former treasurer of the governing People's party (PP) told a judge he had channelled cash donations from construction magnates into leaders' pockets, and was found to have stashed \u20ac48m (\u00a340m) in Swiss bank accounts. I\u00f1aki Urdangarin, the king's son-in-law, was also charged this year with embezzling \u20ac6m in public funds.\"What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption\u00a0\u2026 It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector \u2013 politics, the royal family and companies \u2013 was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering,\" said Anne Koch, TI's director for Europe and Central Asia.The scandals also highlighted a lack of accountability in political parties and even the watchdogs charged with keeping them clean. This prompted lawmakers to react to public outrage and draw up Spain's first freedom of information law.Spain had been the only European Union nation without a law guaranteeing citizens a right to information on how public funds are spent, but Koch said the new law was inadequate.TI ranked 177 countries in 2013, placing New Zealand and Denmark joint first. Those two countries were also deemed the world's least corrupt in 2012, as well as Finland. Somalia, North Korea and Afghanistan again tied for last place.The Berlin-based institute measures perceptions of graft rather than actual levels because of the secrecy that surrounds most corrupt dealings. Greece remained the European Union state with the worst perceived level of corruption, although its four-point gain to 40 points helped it rise to 80th place from 94th in 2012.The biggest improver was Burma, which emerged from 49 years of military rule in 2011. The south-east Asian state gained six points, moving it up the rankings from 172 to 157.Among the large global economies, the United States ranked 19th and China 80th, both unchanged from last year. Russia improved slightly to joint 127th place, from a previous 133rd, and Japan slid one spot to 18.Allegations that leaders of Spain's PP, including prime minister Mariano Rajoy, took backhanders, and the investigation into a member of the royal family are particularly damaging to Spain's reputation as they involve such central institutions, according to Fernando Jim\u00e9nez, a lecturer in political sciences at Murcia University. \"The problem in Spain is the political reaction\u00a0\u2026 Very few people resign here,\" he said.He contrasted the Madrid government's slow response to the illegal financing scandal in the PP with Germany, where cabinet ministers stepped down after comparitively less serious allegations that they had plagiarised their academic theses decades earlier.On the same day the damning corruption figures were released, Madrid welcomed figures showing the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by a little under 2,500 in November - the first drop in that month since the current system was introduced in 1997. The decline provided further evidence that the Spanish economy might be picking up after more than two years of recession, which only ended in the third quarter.Spainhas around 4.8 million people out of work, representing about 26% of its total workforce. Only Greece has a higher unemployment rate in the 17-country eurozone.", "tags": ["Spain", "Corruption index and barometer", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Scandals force Spain down global corruption index"},{"date": "2013-12-11T13:08:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish judge has taken Ryanair to task for sexism, ordering the low-cost airline to drop an advertising campaign for its annual Girls of Ryanair calendar.The racy calendar, which shows female cabin crew stripped down to bikinis, landed the airline in court in Malaga after a Spanish consumer group lodged a formal complaint.The judge Amanda Cohen ruled on Tuesday that both the calendar and a web campaign to promote it broke advertising laws in Spain as they used the \"female body as a mere object\" to capture attention.Cohen said there was an \"absolute disconnection between the image used and the product being promoted\", and the campaign was \"illegal, discriminatory and unfair\". Members of the cabin crew were shown in a \"sexually suggestive manner\", she said. She ordered the company to publish the judgment in two national newspapers at its own cost.The Girls of Ryanair calendar has been running since 2008. Sold at a cost of \u00a310 in the UK or \u20ac10 in the eurozone, it has raised more than \u20ac600,000 for various charities over the years. Proceeds from the 2014 edition, shot in Crete, will go to the UK-based Teenage Cancer Trust.Cohen praised Ryanair for its \"laudable charity work\" but said it was clear the calendar was being used as a marketing tool to sell airline tickets.The ruling comes after five years of complaints by various consumer and women's groups in Spain. The latest complaint, lodged by the consumer group Adecua, claimed the calendar used \"sexual connotations\" to advertise and called for it to be banned.A Ryanair spokesperson, Robin Kiely, said the airline planned to appeal against the ruling. He said the 2013 calendar that provoked the complaint had raised more than \u20ac100,000 for the TVN Foundation, a Polish charity that works with sick children.He added that the case related to specific adverts run in November and December 2012, and had \"no effect on Ryanair's continuing charity work or our current 2014 cabin crew charity calendar\".This month the company announced record sales for its 2014 calendar, with more than 9,000 copies sold in six weeks.", "tags": ["Spain", "Ryanair", "Women", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Business", "Life and style"], "title": "Girls of Ryanair calendar campaign censured in Spain"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:50:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has slumped 10 places to rank 40th in a global index of perceived official corruption after a spate of scandals hit its ruling centre-right party and the royal family, watchdog Transparency International (TI) said.The Corruption Perceptions Index for 2013 found Spain to be the second biggest loser of points along with Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Libya. The only country to tumble further was Syria, which is almost four years into a civil war.Spain's five-year economic slump, which has forced it to adopt tight austerity laws, exposed how cosy relations between politicians and construction magnates had fed a disastrous housing bubble.The former treasurer of the governing People's party (PP) told a judge he had channelled cash donations from construction magnates into leaders' pockets, and was found to have stashed \u20ac48m (\u00a340m) in Swiss bank accounts. I\u00f1aki Urdangarin, the king's son-in-law, was also charged this year with embezzling \u20ac6m in public funds.\"What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption\u00a0\u2026 It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector \u2013 politics, the royal family and companies \u2013 was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering,\" said Anne Koch, TI's director for Europe and Central Asia.The scandals also highlighted a lack of accountability in political parties and even the watchdogs charged with keeping them clean. This prompted lawmakers to react to public outrage and draw up Spain's first freedom of information law.Spain had been the only European Union nation without a law guaranteeing citizens a right to information on how public funds are spent, but Koch said the new law was inadequate.TI ranked 177 countries in 2013, placing New Zealand and Denmark joint first. Those two countries were also deemed the world's least corrupt in 2012, as well as Finland. Somalia, North Korea and Afghanistan again tied for last place.The Berlin-based institute measures perceptions of graft rather than actual levels because of the secrecy that surrounds most corrupt dealings. Greece remained the European Union state with the worst perceived level of corruption, although its four-point gain to 40 points helped it rise to 80th place from 94th in 2012.The biggest improver was Burma, which emerged from 49 years of military rule in 2011. The south-east Asian state gained six points, moving it up the rankings from 172 to 157.Among the large global economies, the United States ranked 19th and China 80th, both unchanged from last year. Russia improved slightly to joint 127th place, from a previous 133rd, and Japan slid one spot to 18.Allegations that leaders of Spain's PP, including prime minister Mariano Rajoy, took backhanders, and the investigation into a member of the royal family are particularly damaging to Spain's reputation as they involve such central institutions, according to Fernando Jim\u00e9nez, a lecturer in political sciences at Murcia University. \"The problem in Spain is the political reaction\u00a0\u2026 Very few people resign here,\" he said.He contrasted the Madrid government's slow response to the illegal financing scandal in the PP with Germany, where cabinet ministers stepped down after comparitively less serious allegations that they had plagiarised their academic theses decades earlier.On the same day the damning corruption figures were released, Madrid welcomed figures showing the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by a little under 2,500 in November - the first drop in that month since the current system was introduced in 1997. The decline provided further evidence that the Spanish economy might be picking up after more than two years of recession, which only ended in the third quarter.Spainhas around 4.8 million people out of work, representing about 26% of its total workforce. Only Greece has a higher unemployment rate in the 17-country eurozone.", "tags": ["Spain", "Corruption index and barometer", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Scandals force Spain down global corruption index"},{"date": "2013-12-11T13:08:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish judge has taken Ryanair to task for sexism, ordering the low-cost airline to drop an advertising campaign for its annual Girls of Ryanair calendar.The racy calendar, which shows female cabin crew stripped down to bikinis, landed the airline in court in Malaga after a Spanish consumer group lodged a formal complaint.The judge Amanda Cohen ruled on Tuesday that both the calendar and a web campaign to promote it broke advertising laws in Spain as they used the \"female body as a mere object\" to capture attention.Cohen said there was an \"absolute disconnection between the image used and the product being promoted\", and the campaign was \"illegal, discriminatory and unfair\". Members of the cabin crew were shown in a \"sexually suggestive manner\", she said. She ordered the company to publish the judgment in two national newspapers at its own cost.The Girls of Ryanair calendar has been running since 2008. Sold at a cost of \u00a310 in the UK or \u20ac10 in the eurozone, it has raised more than \u20ac600,000 for various charities over the years. Proceeds from the 2014 edition, shot in Crete, will go to the UK-based Teenage Cancer Trust.Cohen praised Ryanair for its \"laudable charity work\" but said it was clear the calendar was being used as a marketing tool to sell airline tickets.The ruling comes after five years of complaints by various consumer and women's groups in Spain. The latest complaint, lodged by the consumer group Adecua, claimed the calendar used \"sexual connotations\" to advertise and called for it to be banned.A Ryanair spokesperson, Robin Kiely, said the airline planned to appeal against the ruling. He said the 2013 calendar that provoked the complaint had raised more than \u20ac100,000 for the TVN Foundation, a Polish charity that works with sick children.He added that the case related to specific adverts run in November and December 2012, and had \"no effect on Ryanair's continuing charity work or our current 2014 cabin crew charity calendar\".This month the company announced record sales for its 2014 calendar, with more than 9,000 copies sold in six weeks.", "tags": ["Spain", "Ryanair", "Women", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Business", "Life and style"], "title": "Girls of Ryanair calendar campaign censured in Spain"},{"date": "2013-12-05T17:07:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A flood of more than 20,000 jobseekers applying for just 400 jobs at a new Ikea megastore in Spain overwhelmed the local office's computer servers.The outletis to open next summer in Alfafar, a town in Valencia, and started accepting applications on Monday.\"Our server collapsed. It wasn't able to handle that many applications,\" said Ikea Spain's Rodrigo Sanchez. \"We never expected to have so many applications in such a short time.\"The company brought in a new server, but that one also collapsed hours later. The number of applicants in the first two days, added Sanchez, was quadruple what the company has seen during any of their previous 15 store openings in Spain.Unemployment in Spain has fallen in recent months but there are still 4.8 million people out of work.The country's finance minister Luis de Guindos said this week people were underestimating the \"intensity\" of the country's recovery.He was speaking as official figures showed the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by 2,475 in November, the first time the rate has dropped during the month since the current system was introduced in 1997.The minister attributed the drop to new jobs in construction and industry. \"There's still a long way to go,\" he told reporters, adding that \"additional measures\" were necessary.The events are telling of the different sides of the Spanish economy as it struggles to pull itself out of the economic crisis. Government officials point to recent statistics, such as the 0.1% GDP growth recorded in the third quarter of 2013 after more than two years of recession, as evidence that a recovery is underway. This week saw Moody's raise Spain's outlook to stable from negative, echoing a similar move just days before by S&P.A report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers said that it will take until 2033 before Spain's unemployment rate falls to 6.8%, a rate which would put it in line with its European counterparts. The report added it will take Spain 15 years alone to bring unemployment levels below 10%.", "tags": ["Ikea", "Retail industry", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Financial crisis"], "title": "Spain Ikea receives 20,000 applications for 400 jobs"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:50:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has slumped 10 places to rank 40th in a global index of perceived official corruption after a spate of scandals hit its ruling centre-right party and the royal family, watchdog Transparency International (TI) said.The Corruption Perceptions Index for 2013 found Spain to be the second biggest loser of points along with Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Libya. The only country to tumble further was Syria, which is almost four years into a civil war.Spain's five-year economic slump, which has forced it to adopt tight austerity laws, exposed how cosy relations between politicians and construction magnates had fed a disastrous housing bubble.The former treasurer of the governing People's party (PP) told a judge he had channelled cash donations from construction magnates into leaders' pockets, and was found to have stashed \u20ac48m (\u00a340m) in Swiss bank accounts. I\u00f1aki Urdangarin, the king's son-in-law, was also charged this year with embezzling \u20ac6m in public funds.\"What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption\u00a0\u2026 It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector \u2013 politics, the royal family and companies \u2013 was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering,\" said Anne Koch, TI's director for Europe and Central Asia.The scandals also highlighted a lack of accountability in political parties and even the watchdogs charged with keeping them clean. This prompted lawmakers to react to public outrage and draw up Spain's first freedom of information law.Spain had been the only European Union nation without a law guaranteeing citizens a right to information on how public funds are spent, but Koch said the new law was inadequate.TI ranked 177 countries in 2013, placing New Zealand and Denmark joint first. Those two countries were also deemed the world's least corrupt in 2012, as well as Finland. Somalia, North Korea and Afghanistan again tied for last place.The Berlin-based institute measures perceptions of graft rather than actual levels because of the secrecy that surrounds most corrupt dealings. Greece remained the European Union state with the worst perceived level of corruption, although its four-point gain to 40 points helped it rise to 80th place from 94th in 2012.The biggest improver was Burma, which emerged from 49 years of military rule in 2011. The south-east Asian state gained six points, moving it up the rankings from 172 to 157.Among the large global economies, the United States ranked 19th and China 80th, both unchanged from last year. Russia improved slightly to joint 127th place, from a previous 133rd, and Japan slid one spot to 18.Allegations that leaders of Spain's PP, including prime minister Mariano Rajoy, took backhanders, and the investigation into a member of the royal family are particularly damaging to Spain's reputation as they involve such central institutions, according to Fernando Jim\u00e9nez, a lecturer in political sciences at Murcia University. \"The problem in Spain is the political reaction\u00a0\u2026 Very few people resign here,\" he said.He contrasted the Madrid government's slow response to the illegal financing scandal in the PP with Germany, where cabinet ministers stepped down after comparitively less serious allegations that they had plagiarised their academic theses decades earlier.On the same day the damning corruption figures were released, Madrid welcomed figures showing the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by a little under 2,500 in November - the first drop in that month since the current system was introduced in 1997. The decline provided further evidence that the Spanish economy might be picking up after more than two years of recession, which only ended in the third quarter.Spainhas around 4.8 million people out of work, representing about 26% of its total workforce. Only Greece has a higher unemployment rate in the 17-country eurozone.", "tags": ["Spain", "Corruption index and barometer", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Scandals force Spain down global corruption index"},{"date": "2013-12-11T13:08:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish judge has taken Ryanair to task for sexism, ordering the low-cost airline to drop an advertising campaign for its annual Girls of Ryanair calendar.The racy calendar, which shows female cabin crew stripped down to bikinis, landed the airline in court in Malaga after a Spanish consumer group lodged a formal complaint.The judge Amanda Cohen ruled on Tuesday that both the calendar and a web campaign to promote it broke advertising laws in Spain as they used the \"female body as a mere object\" to capture attention.Cohen said there was an \"absolute disconnection between the image used and the product being promoted\", and the campaign was \"illegal, discriminatory and unfair\". Members of the cabin crew were shown in a \"sexually suggestive manner\", she said. She ordered the company to publish the judgment in two national newspapers at its own cost.The Girls of Ryanair calendar has been running since 2008. Sold at a cost of \u00a310 in the UK or \u20ac10 in the eurozone, it has raised more than \u20ac600,000 for various charities over the years. Proceeds from the 2014 edition, shot in Crete, will go to the UK-based Teenage Cancer Trust.Cohen praised Ryanair for its \"laudable charity work\" but said it was clear the calendar was being used as a marketing tool to sell airline tickets.The ruling comes after five years of complaints by various consumer and women's groups in Spain. The latest complaint, lodged by the consumer group Adecua, claimed the calendar used \"sexual connotations\" to advertise and called for it to be banned.A Ryanair spokesperson, Robin Kiely, said the airline planned to appeal against the ruling. He said the 2013 calendar that provoked the complaint had raised more than \u20ac100,000 for the TVN Foundation, a Polish charity that works with sick children.He added that the case related to specific adverts run in November and December 2012, and had \"no effect on Ryanair's continuing charity work or our current 2014 cabin crew charity calendar\".This month the company announced record sales for its 2014 calendar, with more than 9,000 copies sold in six weeks.", "tags": ["Spain", "Ryanair", "Women", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Business", "Life and style"], "title": "Girls of Ryanair calendar campaign censured in Spain"},{"date": "2013-12-05T17:07:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A flood of more than 20,000 jobseekers applying for just 400 jobs at a new Ikea megastore in Spain overwhelmed the local office's computer servers.The outletis to open next summer in Alfafar, a town in Valencia, and started accepting applications on Monday.\"Our server collapsed. It wasn't able to handle that many applications,\" said Ikea Spain's Rodrigo Sanchez. \"We never expected to have so many applications in such a short time.\"The company brought in a new server, but that one also collapsed hours later. The number of applicants in the first two days, added Sanchez, was quadruple what the company has seen during any of their previous 15 store openings in Spain.Unemployment in Spain has fallen in recent months but there are still 4.8 million people out of work.The country's finance minister Luis de Guindos said this week people were underestimating the \"intensity\" of the country's recovery.He was speaking as official figures showed the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by 2,475 in November, the first time the rate has dropped during the month since the current system was introduced in 1997.The minister attributed the drop to new jobs in construction and industry. \"There's still a long way to go,\" he told reporters, adding that \"additional measures\" were necessary.The events are telling of the different sides of the Spanish economy as it struggles to pull itself out of the economic crisis. Government officials point to recent statistics, such as the 0.1% GDP growth recorded in the third quarter of 2013 after more than two years of recession, as evidence that a recovery is underway. This week saw Moody's raise Spain's outlook to stable from negative, echoing a similar move just days before by S&P.A report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers said that it will take until 2033 before Spain's unemployment rate falls to 6.8%, a rate which would put it in line with its European counterparts. The report added it will take Spain 15 years alone to bring unemployment levels below 10%.", "tags": ["Ikea", "Retail industry", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Financial crisis"], "title": "Spain Ikea receives 20,000 applications for 400 jobs"},{"date": "2013-11-27T22:57:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alex Salmond's plans for an independent Scotland to smoothly join the European Union have been dealt a painful blow after the Scottish first minister's proposals were dismissed by Spain's prime minister.Mariano Rajoy said his government believed an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state, as he warned against regions of Europe embarking on \"solo adventures in an uncertain future\".His intervention confirms long-held suspicions that the Madrid government will resist the Scottish government's plans because of its rejection of Catalonian independence, which has seen large marches in Barcelona in favour of secession.While Rajoy's government faces an election in late 2015, before Scotland formally seeks to become independent, it will be seen as an effective veto on immediate Scottish entry to the EU, threatening to have a fatal impact on Salmond's hopes of winning next year's referendum.Already trailing in the polls, Salmond has repeatedly insisted that EU membership for Scotland will be smooth and pain-free, and would allow Scotland to retain sterling as its currency, the UK's opt-outs on policies such as Schengen border controls and the UK's rebate.Speaking at a joint press conference with the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, Rajoy said: \"It's very clear to me, as it is for everybody else in the world, that a country that would obtain independence from the EU would remain out of the EU, and that is good for Scottish citizens to know and for all EU citizens to know.\"Rajoy said EU treaties \"apply only to member states that have agreed and ratified them, and if a part of one member state cleaves from the member state, it converts itself into a third part with relation to the EU.\"\"That is the law and that law applies.\"He added: \"In no way does it benefit our European regions and our citizens to propose divisions or solo adventures in an uncertain future in which the exit points may seem clear but the destination is unknown.\"In a statement the UK government appears to have anticipated, Rajoy said he would expect David Cameron, the UK prime minister, to take the same position if Catalonia sought to join the EU as an independent state.On Tuesday the European commission signalled it was sticking to the stance taken by the commission president, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, that a region of a member state which gained independence would be seen as a new state, outside the EU.Speaking shortly after Salmond released his 670-page white paper on independence, a commission spokesman said its \"well-known position\" on this had not changed.\"I can specify that the treaty provides some clear articles when it comes to the need for a new, third country to apply to the EU if they want to join,\" he said. \"Any process of a particular region of a member state leaving this member state will have treaty implications.\"Rajoy's statement came as Scotland's external affairs secretary, Fiona Hyslop, continued a series of private meetings with European diplomats to press the Scottish government's case that the European treaty could allow Scotland to join via a \"common accord\" process without the need to formally apply as a new member state.A spokesperson for deputy first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said there was no provision in the EU treaties for existing EU citizens to be forced to leave the organisation.She said that there was also a significant difference between Scotland's quest for independence and the secession movement in Catalonia, as Scotland's referendum was officially supported by the UK government.\"We note that the Spanish prime minister has said he has not read our proposals, but Mr Rajoy has previously indicated that he considers the Scottish and Catalan situations are 'absolutely and totally different',\" she said.\"Scotland is already an integral part of the EU, and there is nothing in the entire body of EU treaties which provides for the expulsion of an existing territory or the removal of its inhabitants' rights as EU citizens.\"A smooth and fast transition into the EU is crucial to Salmond's plans for Scotland to achieve independence with the minimum of disruption and economic risks.He also believes Scotland should be allowed to keep using sterling and reject the euro, and retain all the UK's rebates and existing opt-outs \u2013 policies observers believe are unlikely to be accepted by EU members and are likely to rile the Spanish and other powerful EU states.Based on legal advice from the Lord Advocate, Frank Mulholland, Scotland's chief law officer, Sturgeon said the Lisbon treaty had provisions under Article 48 where all 27 member states could agree to allow Scotland to make a smooth transition to membership in the 18 months after independence.That process would allow the treaty to be amended through an \"ordinary revision procedure initiated by the United Kingdom government\".Only an hour or two before Rajoy's press conference, the UK government said that was \"a very novel interpretation of EU law\".A spokesman stated: \"The legal basis for the conventional and widely accepted position that, as a new state, an independent Scotland would have to apply to join the EU is set out in the legal paper published in February.\"Nor is it clear from this document what grounds they have for their strong assertion that an independent Scotland will somehow automatically retain the UK's opt-outs or a share of the UK rebate \u2013 we can see no legal or political basis for such an emphatic claim.\"It will be interesting to see how other [EU] member states react to the claims the Scottish government have put forward in this document.\"Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, said Spain could be followed by other EU member states: \"The nationalists insisted an independent Scotland would not be put outside the European Union but this intervention from the Spanish prime minister directly contradicts this assertion.\"Hard won opt-outs on Schengen, the Euro and the rebate would be in doubt and might have to be traded away to get back in. At breakfast the SNP said there was little doubt, by teatime there was little certainty.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Politics", "Mariano Rajoy", "Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Scottish independence: Spain blocks Alex Salmond's hopes for EU transition"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:50:38Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has slumped 10 places to rank 40th in a global index of perceived official corruption after a spate of scandals hit its ruling centre-right party and the royal family, watchdog Transparency International (TI) said.The Corruption Perceptions Index for 2013 found Spain to be the second biggest loser of points along with Gambia, Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Libya. The only country to tumble further was Syria, which is almost four years into a civil war.Spain's five-year economic slump, which has forced it to adopt tight austerity laws, exposed how cosy relations between politicians and construction magnates had fed a disastrous housing bubble.The former treasurer of the governing People's party (PP) told a judge he had channelled cash donations from construction magnates into leaders' pockets, and was found to have stashed \u20ac48m (\u00a340m) in Swiss bank accounts. I\u00f1aki Urdangarin, the king's son-in-law, was also charged this year with embezzling \u20ac6m in public funds.\"What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption\u00a0\u2026 It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector \u2013 politics, the royal family and companies \u2013 was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering,\" said Anne Koch, TI's director for Europe and Central Asia.The scandals also highlighted a lack of accountability in political parties and even the watchdogs charged with keeping them clean. This prompted lawmakers to react to public outrage and draw up Spain's first freedom of information law.Spain had been the only European Union nation without a law guaranteeing citizens a right to information on how public funds are spent, but Koch said the new law was inadequate.TI ranked 177 countries in 2013, placing New Zealand and Denmark joint first. Those two countries were also deemed the world's least corrupt in 2012, as well as Finland. Somalia, North Korea and Afghanistan again tied for last place.The Berlin-based institute measures perceptions of graft rather than actual levels because of the secrecy that surrounds most corrupt dealings. Greece remained the European Union state with the worst perceived level of corruption, although its four-point gain to 40 points helped it rise to 80th place from 94th in 2012.The biggest improver was Burma, which emerged from 49 years of military rule in 2011. The south-east Asian state gained six points, moving it up the rankings from 172 to 157.Among the large global economies, the United States ranked 19th and China 80th, both unchanged from last year. Russia improved slightly to joint 127th place, from a previous 133rd, and Japan slid one spot to 18.Allegations that leaders of Spain's PP, including prime minister Mariano Rajoy, took backhanders, and the investigation into a member of the royal family are particularly damaging to Spain's reputation as they involve such central institutions, according to Fernando Jim\u00e9nez, a lecturer in political sciences at Murcia University. \"The problem in Spain is the political reaction\u00a0\u2026 Very few people resign here,\" he said.He contrasted the Madrid government's slow response to the illegal financing scandal in the PP with Germany, where cabinet ministers stepped down after comparitively less serious allegations that they had plagiarised their academic theses decades earlier.On the same day the damning corruption figures were released, Madrid welcomed figures showing the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by a little under 2,500 in November - the first drop in that month since the current system was introduced in 1997. The decline provided further evidence that the Spanish economy might be picking up after more than two years of recession, which only ended in the third quarter.Spainhas around 4.8 million people out of work, representing about 26% of its total workforce. Only Greece has a higher unemployment rate in the 17-country eurozone.", "tags": ["Spain", "Corruption index and barometer", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Scandals force Spain down global corruption index"},{"date": "2013-12-11T13:08:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Spanish judge has taken Ryanair to task for sexism, ordering the low-cost airline to drop an advertising campaign for its annual Girls of Ryanair calendar.The racy calendar, which shows female cabin crew stripped down to bikinis, landed the airline in court in Malaga after a Spanish consumer group lodged a formal complaint.The judge Amanda Cohen ruled on Tuesday that both the calendar and a web campaign to promote it broke advertising laws in Spain as they used the \"female body as a mere object\" to capture attention.Cohen said there was an \"absolute disconnection between the image used and the product being promoted\", and the campaign was \"illegal, discriminatory and unfair\". Members of the cabin crew were shown in a \"sexually suggestive manner\", she said. She ordered the company to publish the judgment in two national newspapers at its own cost.The Girls of Ryanair calendar has been running since 2008. Sold at a cost of \u00a310 in the UK or \u20ac10 in the eurozone, it has raised more than \u20ac600,000 for various charities over the years. Proceeds from the 2014 edition, shot in Crete, will go to the UK-based Teenage Cancer Trust.Cohen praised Ryanair for its \"laudable charity work\" but said it was clear the calendar was being used as a marketing tool to sell airline tickets.The ruling comes after five years of complaints by various consumer and women's groups in Spain. The latest complaint, lodged by the consumer group Adecua, claimed the calendar used \"sexual connotations\" to advertise and called for it to be banned.A Ryanair spokesperson, Robin Kiely, said the airline planned to appeal against the ruling. He said the 2013 calendar that provoked the complaint had raised more than \u20ac100,000 for the TVN Foundation, a Polish charity that works with sick children.He added that the case related to specific adverts run in November and December 2012, and had \"no effect on Ryanair's continuing charity work or our current 2014 cabin crew charity calendar\".This month the company announced record sales for its 2014 calendar, with more than 9,000 copies sold in six weeks.", "tags": ["Spain", "Ryanair", "Women", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Business", "Life and style"], "title": "Girls of Ryanair calendar campaign censured in Spain"},{"date": "2013-12-05T17:07:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A flood of more than 20,000 jobseekers applying for just 400 jobs at a new Ikea megastore in Spain overwhelmed the local office's computer servers.The outletis to open next summer in Alfafar, a town in Valencia, and started accepting applications on Monday.\"Our server collapsed. It wasn't able to handle that many applications,\" said Ikea Spain's Rodrigo Sanchez. \"We never expected to have so many applications in such a short time.\"The company brought in a new server, but that one also collapsed hours later. The number of applicants in the first two days, added Sanchez, was quadruple what the company has seen during any of their previous 15 store openings in Spain.Unemployment in Spain has fallen in recent months but there are still 4.8 million people out of work.The country's finance minister Luis de Guindos said this week people were underestimating the \"intensity\" of the country's recovery.He was speaking as official figures showed the number of people registered as unemployed in Spain fell by 2,475 in November, the first time the rate has dropped during the month since the current system was introduced in 1997.The minister attributed the drop to new jobs in construction and industry. \"There's still a long way to go,\" he told reporters, adding that \"additional measures\" were necessary.The events are telling of the different sides of the Spanish economy as it struggles to pull itself out of the economic crisis. Government officials point to recent statistics, such as the 0.1% GDP growth recorded in the third quarter of 2013 after more than two years of recession, as evidence that a recovery is underway. This week saw Moody's raise Spain's outlook to stable from negative, echoing a similar move just days before by S&P.A report by PriceWaterhouseCoopers said that it will take until 2033 before Spain's unemployment rate falls to 6.8%, a rate which would put it in line with its European counterparts. The report added it will take Spain 15 years alone to bring unemployment levels below 10%.", "tags": ["Ikea", "Retail industry", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Financial crisis"], "title": "Spain Ikea receives 20,000 applications for 400 jobs"},{"date": "2013-11-27T22:57:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Alex Salmond's plans for an independent Scotland to smoothly join the European Union have been dealt a painful blow after the Scottish first minister's proposals were dismissed by Spain's prime minister.Mariano Rajoy said his government believed an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state, as he warned against regions of Europe embarking on \"solo adventures in an uncertain future\".His intervention confirms long-held suspicions that the Madrid government will resist the Scottish government's plans because of its rejection of Catalonian independence, which has seen large marches in Barcelona in favour of secession.While Rajoy's government faces an election in late 2015, before Scotland formally seeks to become independent, it will be seen as an effective veto on immediate Scottish entry to the EU, threatening to have a fatal impact on Salmond's hopes of winning next year's referendum.Already trailing in the polls, Salmond has repeatedly insisted that EU membership for Scotland will be smooth and pain-free, and would allow Scotland to retain sterling as its currency, the UK's opt-outs on policies such as Schengen border controls and the UK's rebate.Speaking at a joint press conference with the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, Rajoy said: \"It's very clear to me, as it is for everybody else in the world, that a country that would obtain independence from the EU would remain out of the EU, and that is good for Scottish citizens to know and for all EU citizens to know.\"Rajoy said EU treaties \"apply only to member states that have agreed and ratified them, and if a part of one member state cleaves from the member state, it converts itself into a third part with relation to the EU.\"\"That is the law and that law applies.\"He added: \"In no way does it benefit our European regions and our citizens to propose divisions or solo adventures in an uncertain future in which the exit points may seem clear but the destination is unknown.\"In a statement the UK government appears to have anticipated, Rajoy said he would expect David Cameron, the UK prime minister, to take the same position if Catalonia sought to join the EU as an independent state.On Tuesday the European commission signalled it was sticking to the stance taken by the commission president, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, that a region of a member state which gained independence would be seen as a new state, outside the EU.Speaking shortly after Salmond released his 670-page white paper on independence, a commission spokesman said its \"well-known position\" on this had not changed.\"I can specify that the treaty provides some clear articles when it comes to the need for a new, third country to apply to the EU if they want to join,\" he said. \"Any process of a particular region of a member state leaving this member state will have treaty implications.\"Rajoy's statement came as Scotland's external affairs secretary, Fiona Hyslop, continued a series of private meetings with European diplomats to press the Scottish government's case that the European treaty could allow Scotland to join via a \"common accord\" process without the need to formally apply as a new member state.A spokesperson for deputy first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, said there was no provision in the EU treaties for existing EU citizens to be forced to leave the organisation.She said that there was also a significant difference between Scotland's quest for independence and the secession movement in Catalonia, as Scotland's referendum was officially supported by the UK government.\"We note that the Spanish prime minister has said he has not read our proposals, but Mr Rajoy has previously indicated that he considers the Scottish and Catalan situations are 'absolutely and totally different',\" she said.\"Scotland is already an integral part of the EU, and there is nothing in the entire body of EU treaties which provides for the expulsion of an existing territory or the removal of its inhabitants' rights as EU citizens.\"A smooth and fast transition into the EU is crucial to Salmond's plans for Scotland to achieve independence with the minimum of disruption and economic risks.He also believes Scotland should be allowed to keep using sterling and reject the euro, and retain all the UK's rebates and existing opt-outs \u2013 policies observers believe are unlikely to be accepted by EU members and are likely to rile the Spanish and other powerful EU states.Based on legal advice from the Lord Advocate, Frank Mulholland, Scotland's chief law officer, Sturgeon said the Lisbon treaty had provisions under Article 48 where all 27 member states could agree to allow Scotland to make a smooth transition to membership in the 18 months after independence.That process would allow the treaty to be amended through an \"ordinary revision procedure initiated by the United Kingdom government\".Only an hour or two before Rajoy's press conference, the UK government said that was \"a very novel interpretation of EU law\".A spokesman stated: \"The legal basis for the conventional and widely accepted position that, as a new state, an independent Scotland would have to apply to join the EU is set out in the legal paper published in February.\"Nor is it clear from this document what grounds they have for their strong assertion that an independent Scotland will somehow automatically retain the UK's opt-outs or a share of the UK rebate \u2013 we can see no legal or political basis for such an emphatic claim.\"It will be interesting to see how other [EU] member states react to the claims the Scottish government have put forward in this document.\"Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, said Spain could be followed by other EU member states: \"The nationalists insisted an independent Scotland would not be put outside the European Union but this intervention from the Spanish prime minister directly contradicts this assertion.\"Hard won opt-outs on Schengen, the Euro and the rebate would be in doubt and might have to be traded away to get back in. At breakfast the SNP said there was little doubt, by teatime there was little certainty.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Politics", "Mariano Rajoy", "Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe"], "title": "Scottish independence: Spain blocks Alex Salmond's hopes for EU transition"},{"date": "2013-11-22T11:59:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Next in the series of interviews with government communications leaders is Simon Montague, director of communications for the British embassy in Madrid.With more than 13 million Britons visiting annually and an estimated 800,000 living here all or part of the year, Spain has the busiest consular network in the world, handling 24% of all cases globally. The arrival of new ambassador Simon Manley in late October is a fresh opportunity to communicate self-help advice that can keep our citizens out of trouble.Lost and stolen passports are a major problem, so this year we shot a video to encourage young British visitors to Benic\u00e1ssim and other music festivals to look after their stuff so that they spend their time having fun, not with us. The festival organisers hosted the video on their website and it has had 16,000 views on YouTube \u2013 almost as many as the number of Brits who actually attended. So we succeeded in getting to very large numbers even if, frustratingly, the number of lost passports didn't fall; that was due to other factors around the festival itself. \u00a0\u00a0Some Britons living in Spain have run into serious property problems, often through no fault of their own. Britons purchase 4,000 homes per year here and to help future buyers avoid similar issues, we provide a wealth of useful advice on gov.uk on property buying. We've launched another video on YouTube revealing how unprepared many potential buyers are, and we have staff from Spain at the twice-yearly A Place in the Sun shows in the UK, where around 80% of the people we talk to say they will follow FCO advice when buying.I'm pleased to say we have the biggest social media audiences of any British Embassy in Europe. Here in Madrid we also have the FCO's European digital communications team, which advises some 50 posts across Europe on their social media activity. We have a high hit rate in placing opinion pieces in the Spanish press and news stories in the 100 or more English-language expat media channels across Spain. TV filming has enabled us to get consular messages across via holiday programmes and documentaries on BBC, ITV and Channel 4.\u00a0Digital communications colleagues here in Madrid, press colleagues in London, and Communication Director magazine \u2013 a sort of Harvard Business Review for communications in Europe and better than any UK publication. I'm fascinated by how social media is moving us from one-way messaging to a two-way conversation in which there is no longer one \"truth\" \u2013 it is constantly mutating.The UK debate on an EU referendum and our future relationship with Europe has led to questions from Spanish commentators on the likely outcome and the UK's commitment to the EU. So a top priority for the embassy\u00a0\u2013 diplomats and communicators alike \u2013 is to reassure the Spanish government, opinion formers and media that the UK continues to be fully engaged in the EU, has credible ideas for reform that will benefit all Europeans, and wants to be part of a Europe that is more open, competitive, flexible and democratically accountable. The EU debate in the UK is widely re-reported in the Spanish press and can create perceptions that do not reflect the coalition government's actual position.\u2022 Want your say? Email us at public.leaders@theguardian.com. To get our articles on policy and leadership direct to your inbox, sign up to the Guardian Public Leaders Network now. Looking for your next role? See our Guardian jobs site for senior executive jobs in government and politics. \u2022 For the latest on public services leadership, follow us: @Guardianpublic", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Government communications", "Comms and PR"], "title": "Coalition government misrepresented in Spain over EU referendum debate"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:21:44Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Hotel Fuerte Conil can't be called budget in high season, when prices rocket, but, for anyone lucky enough not to have school-age children, it can be a bargain in autumn or spring. It's part of a small chain but despite the fact it has a whopping 469 spacious rooms, the hotel has lots of personal touches, including a botanical garden complete with a random pony keeping the grass short. Inside, it has the feel of a kind of a sprawling Roman palace, the two outdoor pools shielded from the wind by the gleaming white buildings that surround them. For anyone who inexplicably wants to leave, Fontanilla beach is directly beneath the hotel and the centre of Conil, a likeable, white-washed fishing town, is just a few minutes' walk away.\u2022 0800 021 1397, fuertehoteles.com/conil-cadiz, doubles from \u20ac61The 11 rooms at Hospeder\u00eda Santiago are painted in tones of deep peach and the reception is in front of a traditional tiled patio, with plants trailing from the arches. Breakfast is a basket of small cakes. In fact, pretty much the only evidence of foreign influence is that there's a kettle in every room so you can make yourself a cup of tea. Apart from its low rates and Andalusian charm, though, the main reason this hotel is so popular with Spanish guests is that it's 100 metres from one of the Costa de la Luz's best family beaches, Playa de la Barrosa, and its almost four miles of fine, golden sand.\u2022 +34 956 494840, hospederiasantiago.com, doubles from \u20ac55The first thing you'll hear in the morning at Hostal Reyes will probably be the cockerel that lives on the farm behind crying \"kiki ri ki!\", the Spanish for \"cock-a-doodle-do!\" Either that or it'll be the steady crash of the waves. There's not much else around. The hotel, a simple establishment with nine sky-blue rooms above a restaurant specialising in the local fish, is right on El Palmar beach. Directly in front is a wooden walkway that leads you over sand dunes knotted together with long grass and wild flowers. The beach is popular with surfers but, happily, the developers have left it well alone.\u2022 +34 956 232211, hostalreyes.com, doubles from \u20ac50Taking your breakfast in Hotel Misiana's restaurant, light pouring in through the big, patio doors, is one of the best ways to start the day in Tarifa. Although it's on the corner of a busy street in the heart of the town, it's five minutes' walk from the port and less than 10 minutes from the beach. With 14 beautifully designed, pastel-coloured rooms and a classic \"azulejo\" glazed-tile floor in the lobby, it's also one of the most stylish hotels on the coast. This is the place to come if you like wind-surfing, kite-surfing, nightlife, or any combination of the above. It's probably not the place to come, however, if you like to lie down on the beach. Unless you also enjoy being efficiently sand-blasted by the near continuous breeze that makes Tarifa the wind-sports capital of Spain.\u2022 +34 956 627083, misiana.com, doubles from \u20ac55Just under four miles outside Tarifa, right on the Playa de Los Lances beach, the hotel Arte Vida has a spectacular position. The sky is alive with kites and a cool, young crowd hangs out in hammocks, wicker chairs and sofas around its own chiringuito (beach bar), music playing throughout the afternoons. The 11 rooms are basic, with a beach-hut vibe, each one with a direct sea view. Across the sea, so close that you feel like you could swim to it in an afternoon, is the coastline of Africa and the looming Atlas mountains.\u2022 +34 956 685246, hotelartevidatarifa.com, doubles from \u20ac80Just over half a mile further up the coast from Hotel Arte Vida, the Hotel Hurricane has an equally gorgeous location but with more of a grown-up, family vibe. There's a small swimming pool with views across the sea and the hotel is surrounded by tropical gardens and palm trees. Steps lead directly down from the front of the pool to the rocks and on to a broad expanse of sand. The 28 rooms, 16 looking out to the mountains and 12 towards the sea, are simple, but with comfortable beds, white-washed walls and terracotta-tiled floors.\u2022 +34 956 684919, hotelhurricane.com, doubles from \u20ac87One of the most impressive sights on Playa de Los Lances is that of horse-riders cantering along the shoreline. Many of the horses will come from the stables at Hotel Dos Mares, the biggest of the three hotels along this beautiful beach. It looks deceptively small from the shoreline, blending discreetly into the sand behind its palm trees, tan walls and discreet, blue-tiled roof but it has a good-sized swimming pool, tennis and padel (similar to squash) courts, as well as 35 bungalows, eight double rooms and four suites.\u2022 +34 956 684035, dosmareshotel.com, doubles from \u20ac63The little town of Zahara de los Atunes is on the way to precisely nowhere, unless you're a bluefin tuna, in which case it's a kind of a motorway service station on a long journey from the Atlantic to spawn in the Mediterranean. That's what, literally, gave the town its name \u2013 and fish still play an important role at the Hotel Avenida Playa, on a corner between the river, the beach and the small castle. The eight, bright orange rooms, generously sized for the price, play second fiddle to the restaurant downstairs, where you'll find owner Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda holding court, while son Juan Jos\u00e9 performs magic with the tuna.\u2022 +34 956 439338, avenidaplayahotel.com, doubles from \u20ac45At the other end of town from Avenida Playa, Hotel Porfirio is more upmarket, with a design that's a cross between a modern loft apartment \u2013 all jaunty skylights and smooth wooden beams \u2013 and a traditional Spanish villa. The hotel was built in 1999 and has been sensitively added to, to the point where it now has 65 rooms. When the wind blows as \u2013 we might have mentioned, it often does here \u2013 guests shelter around the pool which is surrounded on all sides. On still days, though, there's a pleasant three-minute walk, across the road, along a wooden walkway, over the scrubby sand dunes, to an enormous beach that dwarfs the town itself.\u2022 +34 956 449515, hotelporfirio.com, doubles from \u20ac60The position may seem a little underwhelming: stuck out on the edge of a main road, but El Capi is a great option for exploring Zahora beach, one of the best along the coast. The hotel itself is arranged around a grassy square with a large tree in the centre. Each of the 26 basic rooms has its own porch, the white arches hung with plants. Turn right out of the hotel, though, and walk 10 minutes down a country lane and Zahora beach is unspoilt and beautifully sheltered. It is formed into a bay by two rocky outcrops, one topped by the white, 19th-century Trafalgar lighthouse. As well as flat sand there are rock pools and a very nice chiringuito (beach bar).\u2022 +34 956 437070, elcapi.com, doubles from \u20ac45", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Budget travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Top 10 budget beach hotels in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain: part two"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:21:44Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Hotel Fuerte Conil can't be called budget in high season, when prices rocket, but, for anyone lucky enough not to have school-age children, it can be a bargain in autumn or spring. It's part of a small chain but despite the fact it has a whopping 469 spacious rooms, the hotel has lots of personal touches, including a botanical garden complete with a random pony keeping the grass short. Inside, it has the feel of a kind of a sprawling Roman palace, the two outdoor pools shielded from the wind by the gleaming white buildings that surround them. For anyone who inexplicably wants to leave, Fontanilla beach is directly beneath the hotel and the centre of Conil, a likeable, white-washed fishing town, is just a few minutes' walk away.\u2022 0800 021 1397, fuertehoteles.com/conil-cadiz, doubles from \u20ac61The 11 rooms at Hospeder\u00eda Santiago are painted in tones of deep peach and the reception is in front of a traditional tiled patio, with plants trailing from the arches. Breakfast is a basket of small cakes. In fact, pretty much the only evidence of foreign influence is that there's a kettle in every room so you can make yourself a cup of tea. Apart from its low rates and Andalusian charm, though, the main reason this hotel is so popular with Spanish guests is that it's 100 metres from one of the Costa de la Luz's best family beaches, Playa de la Barrosa, and its almost four miles of fine, golden sand.\u2022 +34 956 494840, hospederiasantiago.com, doubles from \u20ac55The first thing you'll hear in the morning at Hostal Reyes will probably be the cockerel that lives on the farm behind crying \"kiki ri ki!\", the Spanish for \"cock-a-doodle-do!\" Either that or it'll be the steady crash of the waves. There's not much else around. The hotel, a simple establishment with nine sky-blue rooms above a restaurant specialising in the local fish, is right on El Palmar beach. Directly in front is a wooden walkway that leads you over sand dunes knotted together with long grass and wild flowers. The beach is popular with surfers but, happily, the developers have left it well alone.\u2022 +34 956 232211, hostalreyes.com, doubles from \u20ac50Taking your breakfast in Hotel Misiana's restaurant, light pouring in through the big, patio doors, is one of the best ways to start the day in Tarifa. Although it's on the corner of a busy street in the heart of the town, it's five minutes' walk from the port and less than 10 minutes from the beach. With 14 beautifully designed, pastel-coloured rooms and a classic \"azulejo\" glazed-tile floor in the lobby, it's also one of the most stylish hotels on the coast. This is the place to come if you like wind-surfing, kite-surfing, nightlife, or any combination of the above. It's probably not the place to come, however, if you like to lie down on the beach. Unless you also enjoy being efficiently sand-blasted by the near continuous breeze that makes Tarifa the wind-sports capital of Spain.\u2022 +34 956 627083, misiana.com, doubles from \u20ac55Just under four miles outside Tarifa, right on the Playa de Los Lances beach, the hotel Arte Vida has a spectacular position. The sky is alive with kites and a cool, young crowd hangs out in hammocks, wicker chairs and sofas around its own chiringuito (beach bar), music playing throughout the afternoons. The 11 rooms are basic, with a beach-hut vibe, each one with a direct sea view. Across the sea, so close that you feel like you could swim to it in an afternoon, is the coastline of Africa and the looming Atlas mountains.\u2022 +34 956 685246, hotelartevidatarifa.com, doubles from \u20ac80Just over half a mile further up the coast from Hotel Arte Vida, the Hotel Hurricane has an equally gorgeous location but with more of a grown-up, family vibe. There's a small swimming pool with views across the sea and the hotel is surrounded by tropical gardens and palm trees. Steps lead directly down from the front of the pool to the rocks and on to a broad expanse of sand. The 28 rooms, 16 looking out to the mountains and 12 towards the sea, are simple, but with comfortable beds, white-washed walls and terracotta-tiled floors.\u2022 +34 956 684919, hotelhurricane.com, doubles from \u20ac87One of the most impressive sights on Playa de Los Lances is that of horse-riders cantering along the shoreline. Many of the horses will come from the stables at Hotel Dos Mares, the biggest of the three hotels along this beautiful beach. It looks deceptively small from the shoreline, blending discreetly into the sand behind its palm trees, tan walls and discreet, blue-tiled roof but it has a good-sized swimming pool, tennis and padel (similar to squash) courts, as well as 35 bungalows, eight double rooms and four suites.\u2022 +34 956 684035, dosmareshotel.com, doubles from \u20ac63The little town of Zahara de los Atunes is on the way to precisely nowhere, unless you're a bluefin tuna, in which case it's a kind of a motorway service station on a long journey from the Atlantic to spawn in the Mediterranean. That's what, literally, gave the town its name \u2013 and fish still play an important role at the Hotel Avenida Playa, on a corner between the river, the beach and the small castle. The eight, bright orange rooms, generously sized for the price, play second fiddle to the restaurant downstairs, where you'll find owner Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda holding court, while son Juan Jos\u00e9 performs magic with the tuna.\u2022 +34 956 439338, avenidaplayahotel.com, doubles from \u20ac45At the other end of town from Avenida Playa, Hotel Porfirio is more upmarket, with a design that's a cross between a modern loft apartment \u2013 all jaunty skylights and smooth wooden beams \u2013 and a traditional Spanish villa. The hotel was built in 1999 and has been sensitively added to, to the point where it now has 65 rooms. When the wind blows as \u2013 we might have mentioned, it often does here \u2013 guests shelter around the pool which is surrounded on all sides. On still days, though, there's a pleasant three-minute walk, across the road, along a wooden walkway, over the scrubby sand dunes, to an enormous beach that dwarfs the town itself.\u2022 +34 956 449515, hotelporfirio.com, doubles from \u20ac60The position may seem a little underwhelming: stuck out on the edge of a main road, but El Capi is a great option for exploring Zahora beach, one of the best along the coast. The hotel itself is arranged around a grassy square with a large tree in the centre. Each of the 26 basic rooms has its own porch, the white arches hung with plants. Turn right out of the hotel, though, and walk 10 minutes down a country lane and Zahora beach is unspoilt and beautifully sheltered. It is formed into a bay by two rocky outcrops, one topped by the white, 19th-century Trafalgar lighthouse. As well as flat sand there are rock pools and a very nice chiringuito (beach bar).\u2022 +34 956 437070, elcapi.com, doubles from \u20ac45", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Budget travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Top 10 budget beach hotels in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain: part two"},{"date": "2014-03-25T16:44:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "To lose one top editor at a major Spanish newspaper may be regarded as a misfortune. To lose two looks like carelessness. But when Spain's three leading dailies each replace their editors in as many months, it's clear that something is afoot.Many explain the changes in leadership at El Pa\u00eds, El Mundo and La Vanguardia by pointing to the country's economic crisis, which has caused advertising revenue to shrink and circulations to drop. Others evoke a storyline familiar to newspapers the world over: the migration of readers from print to the internet.But media analysts in Spain say there is another factor in play. Nearly 40 years after the country's transition to democracy, there have been more than 300 journalism startups. Staffed by a mix of veteran journalists laid off during the economic crisis and young journalists trying to gain a foothold in an industry where few are hiring, the startups tout themselves as willing to ask the questions that traditional Spanish media will not.As Spain teetered on the brink of financial meltdown, Spaniards started demanding more accountability from their institutions, said Rafael An\u00edbal, a former journalist who now works in communications. \"People went looking for sources of information that aren't directly related to power.\"In contrast, traditional media sought to weather the crisis by becoming more institutionalised. An\u00edbal pointed to the country's leading daily, El Pa\u00eds, founded in the late 1970s, just months after the death of the dictator Francisco Franco. Mired in debt, the paper's owner, Prisa, recently struck a deal that would earn it a reprieve from creditors but see 16% of its shares handed over to the company's bankers.The result, said former El Pa\u00eds journalist Pere Rusi\u00f1ol, is that it is now impossible to untangle the paper's coverage from its financial situation. \"You can't have press freedom in a company that's bankrupt and belongs to the bank.\"He cited a Spanish national court investigation into a Swiss bank account with ties to the Bot\u00edn family, which runs Santander bank. \"This was a news story that appeared in all the international papers. But El Pa\u00eds didn't put it on the front page,\" said Rusi\u00f1ol, who now works with the satirical magazine Mongolia and the monthly Alternativas Econ\u00f3micas. \"There's a lot of evidence to show that it's not possible to do any kind of journalism \u2013 or anything even minimally worthy of the name \u2013 in traditional media.\"When El Mundo's Pedro J Ram\u00edrez was ousted this year, the editor played up the notion that political forces had exerted considerable influence on the newsroom. In his final editorial as director of the paper he had founded 25 years earlier, he linked his fate to the paper's reporting on the alleged secret payments that had the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, fending off calls for resignation. \"This power has converted El Mundo into an outcast and the big companies of the Ibex [stock market index] \u2013 with a few honourable exceptions \u2013 acted accordingly.\" Ram\u00edrez remains with the paper as a columnist.Ram\u00f3n Salaverr\u00eda, author of several books on Spain's media landscape, cautioned against writing off traditional media in Spain just yet. Two of Spain's top online startups, the centre-right El Confidencial \u2013 now the country's most-read online daily \u2013 and the left-leaning eldiario.es get more than 5m hits a month and have \"unquestionable influence\", said Salaverr\u00eda. But El Pa\u00eds and El Mundo continue to be the papers of record in Spain, and attract audiences three times the size of even the most successful startups, he said.Startups say their focus has shifted to increasing audiences. People working for eight startups will take to the streets on 30 March to hand out a one-day newspaper, compiled using content from each of their projects. The goal, according to the team behind the initiative, is to introduce Spaniards to media that are divorced from traditional power structures and institutions.Reporters at El Pa\u00eds were hesitant to speak on the record about pressures on the newsroom. But as one reporter said, \"Everybody knows here that if you start working on a story about a bank, nobody is ever going to tell you that you shouldn't do it. They're going to tell you that you don't have enough to back the story, or that this story isn't what you think it is.\"Some of this reluctance was tied to newspapers' history, he said. \"We were created to change this country, we helped to change it and then we ended up thinking that some of our obligation is to defend democracy and the system as well.\"Javier Moreno, the outgoing editor at El Pa\u00eds, denied any claims of influence over the newsroom. \"I can honestly say I've never had pressure of any type from shareholders or advertisers.\"His replacement, Antonio Ca\u00f1o, who will take over in May, bristled at the comparison between startups and traditional media. \"We are a quality paper, we have to confirm things, we have to check stories before running. But we are going to cover corruption anywhere it happens.\"Ca\u00f1o emphasised that he had spent more than half of his 30-year reporting career as a foreign correspondent. \"I'm not the classic profile of an editor of Spanish newspaper. Traditionally they have connections and friends. I don't have that kind of network. I'm new to this place.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Media", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Media revolution in Spain as readers search for new voices"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:21:44Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Hotel Fuerte Conil can't be called budget in high season, when prices rocket, but, for anyone lucky enough not to have school-age children, it can be a bargain in autumn or spring. It's part of a small chain but despite the fact it has a whopping 469 spacious rooms, the hotel has lots of personal touches, including a botanical garden complete with a random pony keeping the grass short. Inside, it has the feel of a kind of a sprawling Roman palace, the two outdoor pools shielded from the wind by the gleaming white buildings that surround them. For anyone who inexplicably wants to leave, Fontanilla beach is directly beneath the hotel and the centre of Conil, a likeable, white-washed fishing town, is just a few minutes' walk away.\u2022 0800 021 1397, fuertehoteles.com/conil-cadiz, doubles from \u20ac61The 11 rooms at Hospeder\u00eda Santiago are painted in tones of deep peach and the reception is in front of a traditional tiled patio, with plants trailing from the arches. Breakfast is a basket of small cakes. In fact, pretty much the only evidence of foreign influence is that there's a kettle in every room so you can make yourself a cup of tea. Apart from its low rates and Andalusian charm, though, the main reason this hotel is so popular with Spanish guests is that it's 100 metres from one of the Costa de la Luz's best family beaches, Playa de la Barrosa, and its almost four miles of fine, golden sand.\u2022 +34 956 494840, hospederiasantiago.com, doubles from \u20ac55The first thing you'll hear in the morning at Hostal Reyes will probably be the cockerel that lives on the farm behind crying \"kiki ri ki!\", the Spanish for \"cock-a-doodle-do!\" Either that or it'll be the steady crash of the waves. There's not much else around. The hotel, a simple establishment with nine sky-blue rooms above a restaurant specialising in the local fish, is right on El Palmar beach. Directly in front is a wooden walkway that leads you over sand dunes knotted together with long grass and wild flowers. The beach is popular with surfers but, happily, the developers have left it well alone.\u2022 +34 956 232211, hostalreyes.com, doubles from \u20ac50Taking your breakfast in Hotel Misiana's restaurant, light pouring in through the big, patio doors, is one of the best ways to start the day in Tarifa. Although it's on the corner of a busy street in the heart of the town, it's five minutes' walk from the port and less than 10 minutes from the beach. With 14 beautifully designed, pastel-coloured rooms and a classic \"azulejo\" glazed-tile floor in the lobby, it's also one of the most stylish hotels on the coast. This is the place to come if you like wind-surfing, kite-surfing, nightlife, or any combination of the above. It's probably not the place to come, however, if you like to lie down on the beach. Unless you also enjoy being efficiently sand-blasted by the near continuous breeze that makes Tarifa the wind-sports capital of Spain.\u2022 +34 956 627083, misiana.com, doubles from \u20ac55Just under four miles outside Tarifa, right on the Playa de Los Lances beach, the hotel Arte Vida has a spectacular position. The sky is alive with kites and a cool, young crowd hangs out in hammocks, wicker chairs and sofas around its own chiringuito (beach bar), music playing throughout the afternoons. The 11 rooms are basic, with a beach-hut vibe, each one with a direct sea view. Across the sea, so close that you feel like you could swim to it in an afternoon, is the coastline of Africa and the looming Atlas mountains.\u2022 +34 956 685246, hotelartevidatarifa.com, doubles from \u20ac80Just over half a mile further up the coast from Hotel Arte Vida, the Hotel Hurricane has an equally gorgeous location but with more of a grown-up, family vibe. There's a small swimming pool with views across the sea and the hotel is surrounded by tropical gardens and palm trees. Steps lead directly down from the front of the pool to the rocks and on to a broad expanse of sand. The 28 rooms, 16 looking out to the mountains and 12 towards the sea, are simple, but with comfortable beds, white-washed walls and terracotta-tiled floors.\u2022 +34 956 684919, hotelhurricane.com, doubles from \u20ac87One of the most impressive sights on Playa de Los Lances is that of horse-riders cantering along the shoreline. Many of the horses will come from the stables at Hotel Dos Mares, the biggest of the three hotels along this beautiful beach. It looks deceptively small from the shoreline, blending discreetly into the sand behind its palm trees, tan walls and discreet, blue-tiled roof but it has a good-sized swimming pool, tennis and padel (similar to squash) courts, as well as 35 bungalows, eight double rooms and four suites.\u2022 +34 956 684035, dosmareshotel.com, doubles from \u20ac63The little town of Zahara de los Atunes is on the way to precisely nowhere, unless you're a bluefin tuna, in which case it's a kind of a motorway service station on a long journey from the Atlantic to spawn in the Mediterranean. That's what, literally, gave the town its name \u2013 and fish still play an important role at the Hotel Avenida Playa, on a corner between the river, the beach and the small castle. The eight, bright orange rooms, generously sized for the price, play second fiddle to the restaurant downstairs, where you'll find owner Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda holding court, while son Juan Jos\u00e9 performs magic with the tuna.\u2022 +34 956 439338, avenidaplayahotel.com, doubles from \u20ac45At the other end of town from Avenida Playa, Hotel Porfirio is more upmarket, with a design that's a cross between a modern loft apartment \u2013 all jaunty skylights and smooth wooden beams \u2013 and a traditional Spanish villa. The hotel was built in 1999 and has been sensitively added to, to the point where it now has 65 rooms. When the wind blows as \u2013 we might have mentioned, it often does here \u2013 guests shelter around the pool which is surrounded on all sides. On still days, though, there's a pleasant three-minute walk, across the road, along a wooden walkway, over the scrubby sand dunes, to an enormous beach that dwarfs the town itself.\u2022 +34 956 449515, hotelporfirio.com, doubles from \u20ac60The position may seem a little underwhelming: stuck out on the edge of a main road, but El Capi is a great option for exploring Zahora beach, one of the best along the coast. The hotel itself is arranged around a grassy square with a large tree in the centre. Each of the 26 basic rooms has its own porch, the white arches hung with plants. Turn right out of the hotel, though, and walk 10 minutes down a country lane and Zahora beach is unspoilt and beautifully sheltered. It is formed into a bay by two rocky outcrops, one topped by the white, 19th-century Trafalgar lighthouse. As well as flat sand there are rock pools and a very nice chiringuito (beach bar).\u2022 +34 956 437070, elcapi.com, doubles from \u20ac45", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Budget travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Top 10 budget beach hotels in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain: part two"},{"date": "2014-03-25T16:44:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "To lose one top editor at a major Spanish newspaper may be regarded as a misfortune. To lose two looks like carelessness. But when Spain's three leading dailies each replace their editors in as many months, it's clear that something is afoot.Many explain the changes in leadership at El Pa\u00eds, El Mundo and La Vanguardia by pointing to the country's economic crisis, which has caused advertising revenue to shrink and circulations to drop. Others evoke a storyline familiar to newspapers the world over: the migration of readers from print to the internet.But media analysts in Spain say there is another factor in play. Nearly 40 years after the country's transition to democracy, there have been more than 300 journalism startups. Staffed by a mix of veteran journalists laid off during the economic crisis and young journalists trying to gain a foothold in an industry where few are hiring, the startups tout themselves as willing to ask the questions that traditional Spanish media will not.As Spain teetered on the brink of financial meltdown, Spaniards started demanding more accountability from their institutions, said Rafael An\u00edbal, a former journalist who now works in communications. \"People went looking for sources of information that aren't directly related to power.\"In contrast, traditional media sought to weather the crisis by becoming more institutionalised. An\u00edbal pointed to the country's leading daily, El Pa\u00eds, founded in the late 1970s, just months after the death of the dictator Francisco Franco. Mired in debt, the paper's owner, Prisa, recently struck a deal that would earn it a reprieve from creditors but see 16% of its shares handed over to the company's bankers.The result, said former El Pa\u00eds journalist Pere Rusi\u00f1ol, is that it is now impossible to untangle the paper's coverage from its financial situation. \"You can't have press freedom in a company that's bankrupt and belongs to the bank.\"He cited a Spanish national court investigation into a Swiss bank account with ties to the Bot\u00edn family, which runs Santander bank. \"This was a news story that appeared in all the international papers. But El Pa\u00eds didn't put it on the front page,\" said Rusi\u00f1ol, who now works with the satirical magazine Mongolia and the monthly Alternativas Econ\u00f3micas. \"There's a lot of evidence to show that it's not possible to do any kind of journalism \u2013 or anything even minimally worthy of the name \u2013 in traditional media.\"When El Mundo's Pedro J Ram\u00edrez was ousted this year, the editor played up the notion that political forces had exerted considerable influence on the newsroom. In his final editorial as director of the paper he had founded 25 years earlier, he linked his fate to the paper's reporting on the alleged secret payments that had the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, fending off calls for resignation. \"This power has converted El Mundo into an outcast and the big companies of the Ibex [stock market index] \u2013 with a few honourable exceptions \u2013 acted accordingly.\" Ram\u00edrez remains with the paper as a columnist.Ram\u00f3n Salaverr\u00eda, author of several books on Spain's media landscape, cautioned against writing off traditional media in Spain just yet. Two of Spain's top online startups, the centre-right El Confidencial \u2013 now the country's most-read online daily \u2013 and the left-leaning eldiario.es get more than 5m hits a month and have \"unquestionable influence\", said Salaverr\u00eda. But El Pa\u00eds and El Mundo continue to be the papers of record in Spain, and attract audiences three times the size of even the most successful startups, he said.Startups say their focus has shifted to increasing audiences. People working for eight startups will take to the streets on 30 March to hand out a one-day newspaper, compiled using content from each of their projects. The goal, according to the team behind the initiative, is to introduce Spaniards to media that are divorced from traditional power structures and institutions.Reporters at El Pa\u00eds were hesitant to speak on the record about pressures on the newsroom. But as one reporter said, \"Everybody knows here that if you start working on a story about a bank, nobody is ever going to tell you that you shouldn't do it. They're going to tell you that you don't have enough to back the story, or that this story isn't what you think it is.\"Some of this reluctance was tied to newspapers' history, he said. \"We were created to change this country, we helped to change it and then we ended up thinking that some of our obligation is to defend democracy and the system as well.\"Javier Moreno, the outgoing editor at El Pa\u00eds, denied any claims of influence over the newsroom. \"I can honestly say I've never had pressure of any type from shareholders or advertisers.\"His replacement, Antonio Ca\u00f1o, who will take over in May, bristled at the comparison between startups and traditional media. \"We are a quality paper, we have to confirm things, we have to check stories before running. But we are going to cover corruption anywhere it happens.\"Ca\u00f1o emphasised that he had spent more than half of his 30-year reporting career as a foreign correspondent. \"I'm not the classic profile of an editor of Spanish newspaper. Traditionally they have connections and friends. I don't have that kind of network. I'm new to this place.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Media", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Media revolution in Spain as readers search for new voices"},{"date": "2014-03-06T18:26:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is to spend more than \u20ac2.3m (\u00a31.89m) fortifying the borders that divide its territories of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, in an attempt to deter the thousands of migrants who arrive at the borders of its two exclaves in north Africa, the country's interior minister has announced.Reinforcements to be added in the coming weeks include lining the six-metre-high fences that surround both cities with a type of mesh meant to \"impede anyone from climbing\", Jorge Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz told reporters.In Ceuta, an additional 20 Guardia Civil agents will be deployed and a helicopter will now help with the \"dissuasion and detection\" of migrants. In Melilla, the government will set up three watch towers equipped with heat-sensitive cameras.The announcement comes as the Spanish government faces criticism from EU officials, who have said they are \"very concerned\" over the country's response to sub-Saharan Africans and other immigrants who flock to the Spanish territories, desperately seeking better lives in Europe.Last month, 15 migrants drowned in the Mediterranean after dozens tried to enter Ceuta by swimming around the man-made breakwater that separates Moroccan and Spanish waters. Migrants said that Spanish police had tried to keep them in Moroccan territory by firing rubber bullets at them and spraying them with tear gas as they tried to swim to Spanish land.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz later said that police had indeed fired rubber bullets, but that they were \"fired at the water, not at people\". He denied that police actions played any role in the drowning of the migrants.A court in Ceuta has opened an investigation into the incident, but the ruling People's party used its majority in parliament to block a request by opposition parties for a further investigation by a parliamentary commission.Each year, thousands of Africans \u2013 many of whom have spent years travelling across north and sub-Saharan Africa \u2013 try to gain entry into the EU either by swimming along the coast or climbing the three rows of fences lined with razor wire that mark the border between Morocco and the enclaves. Many of them live in rough, makeshift campgrounds on the Moroccan side, waiting for an opportunity to rush the frontier.After nearly a decade of relative calm, the numbers of migrants attempting to cross into Ceuta and Melilla have risen in the past few years. Around 3,000 illegal migrants entered Spain in the first half of last year, according to government statistics, double the figure for the same period in 2012.More than 200 migrants managed to scale the triple fence in Melilla last week, whooping with joy and kissing the ground as they celebrated a crossing they hoped would allow them to stay in Europe.Days later, emboldened by news that Spanish police had been banned from firing rubber bullets and rumours that Spain would soon be reinforcing the fences, some 700 sub-Saharan migrants attempted to cross into Ceuta from Morocco. While many of them were turned away by Moroccan forces, authorities said it was the largest group of migrants they had ever seen attempt to scale the fence at once.The borders have also been attracting migrants from outside Africa. Last month, Spanish police closed a border crossing into Melilla after being tipped off that a large number of Syrian migrants were going to try to push across.As tensions rise at their north African borders, Spain's approach to the migrants has earned them criticism, both at home and in the EU. Past weeks have seen hundreds of Spaniards take to the streets in protest, carrying signs reading, \"Ceuta: the shame of Europe\" and \"More bridges. No walls.\"The European commissioner for home affairs, Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, has also expressed her concern, particularly over last month's incident in Ceuta. In a letter to the Spanish government, she asked if the firing of rubber bullets \"could have provoked panic among the group of immigrants\" and so played a role in the 15 deaths.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz met her this week to defend the country's actions at the border, arguing that Spain is simply protecting the border on behalf of all of Europe. To reinforce his point that this issue is a European one rather than a Spanish domestic affair, the interior minister asked Brussels for \u20ac45m to help ease what he described as an \"emergency situation\" in Ceuta and Melilla.The meeting was just the latest in a long list of diplomatic conflicts spurred on by Ceuta and Melilla. The Spanish exclaves have also been a constant thorn in Moroccan and Spanish diplomatic relations. Much like Gibraltar, the residents in the two territories proudly declare themselves loyal to Spain, a country that lies across the sea, rather than to Morocco, the one that surrounds them.But unlike Gibraltar, where the Spanish government continues to noisily press its claim to the territory, attempts by Morocco to claim Ceuta and Melilla have been quietly ignored.Instead, the Spanish government has shut down any attempt to draw parallels between the territories, arguing that the situations are completely different and cannot be compared.", "tags": ["Spain", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain to raise security around Morocco territories over immigration fears"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:21:44Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Hotel Fuerte Conil can't be called budget in high season, when prices rocket, but, for anyone lucky enough not to have school-age children, it can be a bargain in autumn or spring. It's part of a small chain but despite the fact it has a whopping 469 spacious rooms, the hotel has lots of personal touches, including a botanical garden complete with a random pony keeping the grass short. Inside, it has the feel of a kind of a sprawling Roman palace, the two outdoor pools shielded from the wind by the gleaming white buildings that surround them. For anyone who inexplicably wants to leave, Fontanilla beach is directly beneath the hotel and the centre of Conil, a likeable, white-washed fishing town, is just a few minutes' walk away.\u2022 0800 021 1397, fuertehoteles.com/conil-cadiz, doubles from \u20ac61The 11 rooms at Hospeder\u00eda Santiago are painted in tones of deep peach and the reception is in front of a traditional tiled patio, with plants trailing from the arches. Breakfast is a basket of small cakes. In fact, pretty much the only evidence of foreign influence is that there's a kettle in every room so you can make yourself a cup of tea. Apart from its low rates and Andalusian charm, though, the main reason this hotel is so popular with Spanish guests is that it's 100 metres from one of the Costa de la Luz's best family beaches, Playa de la Barrosa, and its almost four miles of fine, golden sand.\u2022 +34 956 494840, hospederiasantiago.com, doubles from \u20ac55The first thing you'll hear in the morning at Hostal Reyes will probably be the cockerel that lives on the farm behind crying \"kiki ri ki!\", the Spanish for \"cock-a-doodle-do!\" Either that or it'll be the steady crash of the waves. There's not much else around. The hotel, a simple establishment with nine sky-blue rooms above a restaurant specialising in the local fish, is right on El Palmar beach. Directly in front is a wooden walkway that leads you over sand dunes knotted together with long grass and wild flowers. The beach is popular with surfers but, happily, the developers have left it well alone.\u2022 +34 956 232211, hostalreyes.com, doubles from \u20ac50Taking your breakfast in Hotel Misiana's restaurant, light pouring in through the big, patio doors, is one of the best ways to start the day in Tarifa. Although it's on the corner of a busy street in the heart of the town, it's five minutes' walk from the port and less than 10 minutes from the beach. With 14 beautifully designed, pastel-coloured rooms and a classic \"azulejo\" glazed-tile floor in the lobby, it's also one of the most stylish hotels on the coast. This is the place to come if you like wind-surfing, kite-surfing, nightlife, or any combination of the above. It's probably not the place to come, however, if you like to lie down on the beach. Unless you also enjoy being efficiently sand-blasted by the near continuous breeze that makes Tarifa the wind-sports capital of Spain.\u2022 +34 956 627083, misiana.com, doubles from \u20ac55Just under four miles outside Tarifa, right on the Playa de Los Lances beach, the hotel Arte Vida has a spectacular position. The sky is alive with kites and a cool, young crowd hangs out in hammocks, wicker chairs and sofas around its own chiringuito (beach bar), music playing throughout the afternoons. The 11 rooms are basic, with a beach-hut vibe, each one with a direct sea view. Across the sea, so close that you feel like you could swim to it in an afternoon, is the coastline of Africa and the looming Atlas mountains.\u2022 +34 956 685246, hotelartevidatarifa.com, doubles from \u20ac80Just over half a mile further up the coast from Hotel Arte Vida, the Hotel Hurricane has an equally gorgeous location but with more of a grown-up, family vibe. There's a small swimming pool with views across the sea and the hotel is surrounded by tropical gardens and palm trees. Steps lead directly down from the front of the pool to the rocks and on to a broad expanse of sand. The 28 rooms, 16 looking out to the mountains and 12 towards the sea, are simple, but with comfortable beds, white-washed walls and terracotta-tiled floors.\u2022 +34 956 684919, hotelhurricane.com, doubles from \u20ac87One of the most impressive sights on Playa de Los Lances is that of horse-riders cantering along the shoreline. Many of the horses will come from the stables at Hotel Dos Mares, the biggest of the three hotels along this beautiful beach. It looks deceptively small from the shoreline, blending discreetly into the sand behind its palm trees, tan walls and discreet, blue-tiled roof but it has a good-sized swimming pool, tennis and padel (similar to squash) courts, as well as 35 bungalows, eight double rooms and four suites.\u2022 +34 956 684035, dosmareshotel.com, doubles from \u20ac63The little town of Zahara de los Atunes is on the way to precisely nowhere, unless you're a bluefin tuna, in which case it's a kind of a motorway service station on a long journey from the Atlantic to spawn in the Mediterranean. That's what, literally, gave the town its name \u2013 and fish still play an important role at the Hotel Avenida Playa, on a corner between the river, the beach and the small castle. The eight, bright orange rooms, generously sized for the price, play second fiddle to the restaurant downstairs, where you'll find owner Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda holding court, while son Juan Jos\u00e9 performs magic with the tuna.\u2022 +34 956 439338, avenidaplayahotel.com, doubles from \u20ac45At the other end of town from Avenida Playa, Hotel Porfirio is more upmarket, with a design that's a cross between a modern loft apartment \u2013 all jaunty skylights and smooth wooden beams \u2013 and a traditional Spanish villa. The hotel was built in 1999 and has been sensitively added to, to the point where it now has 65 rooms. When the wind blows as \u2013 we might have mentioned, it often does here \u2013 guests shelter around the pool which is surrounded on all sides. On still days, though, there's a pleasant three-minute walk, across the road, along a wooden walkway, over the scrubby sand dunes, to an enormous beach that dwarfs the town itself.\u2022 +34 956 449515, hotelporfirio.com, doubles from \u20ac60The position may seem a little underwhelming: stuck out on the edge of a main road, but El Capi is a great option for exploring Zahora beach, one of the best along the coast. The hotel itself is arranged around a grassy square with a large tree in the centre. Each of the 26 basic rooms has its own porch, the white arches hung with plants. Turn right out of the hotel, though, and walk 10 minutes down a country lane and Zahora beach is unspoilt and beautifully sheltered. It is formed into a bay by two rocky outcrops, one topped by the white, 19th-century Trafalgar lighthouse. As well as flat sand there are rock pools and a very nice chiringuito (beach bar).\u2022 +34 956 437070, elcapi.com, doubles from \u20ac45", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Budget travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Top 10 budget beach hotels in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain: part two"},{"date": "2014-03-25T16:44:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "To lose one top editor at a major Spanish newspaper may be regarded as a misfortune. To lose two looks like carelessness. But when Spain's three leading dailies each replace their editors in as many months, it's clear that something is afoot.Many explain the changes in leadership at El Pa\u00eds, El Mundo and La Vanguardia by pointing to the country's economic crisis, which has caused advertising revenue to shrink and circulations to drop. Others evoke a storyline familiar to newspapers the world over: the migration of readers from print to the internet.But media analysts in Spain say there is another factor in play. Nearly 40 years after the country's transition to democracy, there have been more than 300 journalism startups. Staffed by a mix of veteran journalists laid off during the economic crisis and young journalists trying to gain a foothold in an industry where few are hiring, the startups tout themselves as willing to ask the questions that traditional Spanish media will not.As Spain teetered on the brink of financial meltdown, Spaniards started demanding more accountability from their institutions, said Rafael An\u00edbal, a former journalist who now works in communications. \"People went looking for sources of information that aren't directly related to power.\"In contrast, traditional media sought to weather the crisis by becoming more institutionalised. An\u00edbal pointed to the country's leading daily, El Pa\u00eds, founded in the late 1970s, just months after the death of the dictator Francisco Franco. Mired in debt, the paper's owner, Prisa, recently struck a deal that would earn it a reprieve from creditors but see 16% of its shares handed over to the company's bankers.The result, said former El Pa\u00eds journalist Pere Rusi\u00f1ol, is that it is now impossible to untangle the paper's coverage from its financial situation. \"You can't have press freedom in a company that's bankrupt and belongs to the bank.\"He cited a Spanish national court investigation into a Swiss bank account with ties to the Bot\u00edn family, which runs Santander bank. \"This was a news story that appeared in all the international papers. But El Pa\u00eds didn't put it on the front page,\" said Rusi\u00f1ol, who now works with the satirical magazine Mongolia and the monthly Alternativas Econ\u00f3micas. \"There's a lot of evidence to show that it's not possible to do any kind of journalism \u2013 or anything even minimally worthy of the name \u2013 in traditional media.\"When El Mundo's Pedro J Ram\u00edrez was ousted this year, the editor played up the notion that political forces had exerted considerable influence on the newsroom. In his final editorial as director of the paper he had founded 25 years earlier, he linked his fate to the paper's reporting on the alleged secret payments that had the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, fending off calls for resignation. \"This power has converted El Mundo into an outcast and the big companies of the Ibex [stock market index] \u2013 with a few honourable exceptions \u2013 acted accordingly.\" Ram\u00edrez remains with the paper as a columnist.Ram\u00f3n Salaverr\u00eda, author of several books on Spain's media landscape, cautioned against writing off traditional media in Spain just yet. Two of Spain's top online startups, the centre-right El Confidencial \u2013 now the country's most-read online daily \u2013 and the left-leaning eldiario.es get more than 5m hits a month and have \"unquestionable influence\", said Salaverr\u00eda. But El Pa\u00eds and El Mundo continue to be the papers of record in Spain, and attract audiences three times the size of even the most successful startups, he said.Startups say their focus has shifted to increasing audiences. People working for eight startups will take to the streets on 30 March to hand out a one-day newspaper, compiled using content from each of their projects. The goal, according to the team behind the initiative, is to introduce Spaniards to media that are divorced from traditional power structures and institutions.Reporters at El Pa\u00eds were hesitant to speak on the record about pressures on the newsroom. But as one reporter said, \"Everybody knows here that if you start working on a story about a bank, nobody is ever going to tell you that you shouldn't do it. They're going to tell you that you don't have enough to back the story, or that this story isn't what you think it is.\"Some of this reluctance was tied to newspapers' history, he said. \"We were created to change this country, we helped to change it and then we ended up thinking that some of our obligation is to defend democracy and the system as well.\"Javier Moreno, the outgoing editor at El Pa\u00eds, denied any claims of influence over the newsroom. \"I can honestly say I've never had pressure of any type from shareholders or advertisers.\"His replacement, Antonio Ca\u00f1o, who will take over in May, bristled at the comparison between startups and traditional media. \"We are a quality paper, we have to confirm things, we have to check stories before running. But we are going to cover corruption anywhere it happens.\"Ca\u00f1o emphasised that he had spent more than half of his 30-year reporting career as a foreign correspondent. \"I'm not the classic profile of an editor of Spanish newspaper. Traditionally they have connections and friends. I don't have that kind of network. I'm new to this place.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Media", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Media revolution in Spain as readers search for new voices"},{"date": "2014-03-06T18:26:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is to spend more than \u20ac2.3m (\u00a31.89m) fortifying the borders that divide its territories of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, in an attempt to deter the thousands of migrants who arrive at the borders of its two exclaves in north Africa, the country's interior minister has announced.Reinforcements to be added in the coming weeks include lining the six-metre-high fences that surround both cities with a type of mesh meant to \"impede anyone from climbing\", Jorge Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz told reporters.In Ceuta, an additional 20 Guardia Civil agents will be deployed and a helicopter will now help with the \"dissuasion and detection\" of migrants. In Melilla, the government will set up three watch towers equipped with heat-sensitive cameras.The announcement comes as the Spanish government faces criticism from EU officials, who have said they are \"very concerned\" over the country's response to sub-Saharan Africans and other immigrants who flock to the Spanish territories, desperately seeking better lives in Europe.Last month, 15 migrants drowned in the Mediterranean after dozens tried to enter Ceuta by swimming around the man-made breakwater that separates Moroccan and Spanish waters. Migrants said that Spanish police had tried to keep them in Moroccan territory by firing rubber bullets at them and spraying them with tear gas as they tried to swim to Spanish land.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz later said that police had indeed fired rubber bullets, but that they were \"fired at the water, not at people\". He denied that police actions played any role in the drowning of the migrants.A court in Ceuta has opened an investigation into the incident, but the ruling People's party used its majority in parliament to block a request by opposition parties for a further investigation by a parliamentary commission.Each year, thousands of Africans \u2013 many of whom have spent years travelling across north and sub-Saharan Africa \u2013 try to gain entry into the EU either by swimming along the coast or climbing the three rows of fences lined with razor wire that mark the border between Morocco and the enclaves. Many of them live in rough, makeshift campgrounds on the Moroccan side, waiting for an opportunity to rush the frontier.After nearly a decade of relative calm, the numbers of migrants attempting to cross into Ceuta and Melilla have risen in the past few years. Around 3,000 illegal migrants entered Spain in the first half of last year, according to government statistics, double the figure for the same period in 2012.More than 200 migrants managed to scale the triple fence in Melilla last week, whooping with joy and kissing the ground as they celebrated a crossing they hoped would allow them to stay in Europe.Days later, emboldened by news that Spanish police had been banned from firing rubber bullets and rumours that Spain would soon be reinforcing the fences, some 700 sub-Saharan migrants attempted to cross into Ceuta from Morocco. While many of them were turned away by Moroccan forces, authorities said it was the largest group of migrants they had ever seen attempt to scale the fence at once.The borders have also been attracting migrants from outside Africa. Last month, Spanish police closed a border crossing into Melilla after being tipped off that a large number of Syrian migrants were going to try to push across.As tensions rise at their north African borders, Spain's approach to the migrants has earned them criticism, both at home and in the EU. Past weeks have seen hundreds of Spaniards take to the streets in protest, carrying signs reading, \"Ceuta: the shame of Europe\" and \"More bridges. No walls.\"The European commissioner for home affairs, Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, has also expressed her concern, particularly over last month's incident in Ceuta. In a letter to the Spanish government, she asked if the firing of rubber bullets \"could have provoked panic among the group of immigrants\" and so played a role in the 15 deaths.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz met her this week to defend the country's actions at the border, arguing that Spain is simply protecting the border on behalf of all of Europe. To reinforce his point that this issue is a European one rather than a Spanish domestic affair, the interior minister asked Brussels for \u20ac45m to help ease what he described as an \"emergency situation\" in Ceuta and Melilla.The meeting was just the latest in a long list of diplomatic conflicts spurred on by Ceuta and Melilla. The Spanish exclaves have also been a constant thorn in Moroccan and Spanish diplomatic relations. Much like Gibraltar, the residents in the two territories proudly declare themselves loyal to Spain, a country that lies across the sea, rather than to Morocco, the one that surrounds them.But unlike Gibraltar, where the Spanish government continues to noisily press its claim to the territory, attempts by Morocco to claim Ceuta and Melilla have been quietly ignored.Instead, the Spanish government has shut down any attempt to draw parallels between the territories, arguing that the situations are completely different and cannot be compared.", "tags": ["Spain", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain to raise security around Morocco territories over immigration fears"},{"date": "2014-03-03T17:46:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, has poured cold water on claims from the Spanish government that the recession is over and the country is on the road to recovery.Speaking at the Global Forum on Spain in Bilbao she said: \"Thanks to the formidable actions over the past five years, Europe \u2013 and Spain \u2013are now turning the corner. Yet the task is far from finished. Growth remains too low and unemployment too high for us to declare victory on the crisis.\"The scars of the crisis run deep and will take years to heal, Lagarde said. \"There is no doubt that the reforms that I have outlined for Europe and for Spain will take several years of determined efforts by both government and society.\" The good news, she said, is that Spanish exports have risen faster than Germany's.Insisting that the \"strong reform momentum must be maintained\", she called for a continued shakeup of the labour market, and said reforms \"should not benefit those in work but those without it\".But she was immediately attacked for, in effect, advocating more wage cuts.Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, the European competition commissioner, who was also in Bilbao, criticised Lagarde for calling for wage cuts, which he said would be \"neither sensitive, reasonable nor fair\".\"Sacrifice has to be shared, and economists should not demand what is not viable in practice,\" he said.She pointed to three key areas that need reform. The first is the labour market, but she said the reforms \"shouldn't benefit those in work but those without it.\"The Spanish government has already made it much easier for firms to sack employees, and has pushed down wages. Last week the Bank of Spain insisted that since the crisis began wages have fallen twice as fast as the government claims they have.If the lowest paid who had lost their jobs were taken out of the equation, the wages of those still in work could be seen to have declined sharply, the bank said.Lagarde also singled out the high level of debt, calling on the government to reduce its deficit by raising VAT and income tax.Her third target was reform of the business environment, in which companies, especially new ones, are hamstrung by a labyrinthine bureaucracy. \"Making it easier for businesses to start up and grow will lift their capacity to create employment,\" she said. \"Making domestic firms more competitive will also boost their employment and productivity.\"Luis De Guindos, the Spanish finance minister, insisted that \"unlike 2011, this is not a false recovery\". However, he said it remained \"tenuous and soft\".Meanwhile, groups of hooded demonstrators protesting at the summit chanted \"Troika, go home!\" and rioted in central Bilbao, smashing the windows of banks and setting fire to rubbish containers.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Christine Lagarde", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Spain", "Economics", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Christine Lagarde angers Spain with repeat prescription of austerity"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:34:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The real challenge for Spain \u2013 beyond its current economic plight \u2013 is how to overcome its public governance problem. Corruption and maladministration are notorious among the political class. For instance, in 2006, almost all the city councillors of the resort of Marbella were imprisoned for fraud and corruption, and similar cases exist throughout the country.In the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, in the 1970s and early 1980s the focus was on giving power to regional and local governments. However, administrative controls \u2013 provided by national officials being sent into local authorities \u2013 were weakened through a notion of unrestricted local autonomy. Developing good public administration was neglected; the law and due process were ignored and dubbed an inefficient use of time. This has led to a lack of checks and balances locally and the assumption that politicians who win an election have unrestricted power to do as they see fit.Official reports of the Public Prosecutor General show that in the decade from 2000 to 2010 some 800 political corruption cases were uncovered nationwide; 2,000 politicians were arrested or convicted.Half of the country's local governments scored less than 50% on a Transparency International Spain transparency index and nearly 90% of people in Spain think corruption exists in Spanish local institutions.Any outside monitoring of the work of governments was given to the Courts of Accounts, the main financial accounts bodies regionally and nationally, which had no real power to review public money or impose sanctions if needed.The Spanish solution to fighting corruption, maladministration and illegality is almost exclusively based on criminal law and administrative justice. Judicial remedies are necessary, but insufficient and haphazard. No anti-corruption policy has been enacted, except perhaps in Catalonia which created an anti-fraud office in 2008, modelled on the European Olaf.There is a need to reinforce internal and external controls and to undertake timely audits. Independent bodies should look at the implementation of measures and the way public administration uses public resources and treats citizens. This might be done through a well-functioning ombudsman, an audit institution,Courts of Accounts and commissioners for access to public information.Sound administrative controls over the use of public funds were never generally established by the current democratic regime. A law on the right to access information of public interest was published only on 10 December 2013. Spain was one of the few European states without such a law. The ombudsman office is weak and the ruling party is considering abolishing it altogether.State, regional and municipal public administrations remain politicised and ridden by patronage. Civil servants who are too committed to legalism and the rule of law are often put to one side.All levels of the governance system remain vulnerable to corruption, mismanagement and extravagant public investment. Cases of brand new airports without aircraft, railway stations without trains, and empty highways are often cited.Some regard the decentralisation of power towards regional governments without independent administrative controls as a major source of corruption. A radical minority is advocating to reinstate a completely centralised state, as it was under Franco.More moderate commentators propose a revision of the constitution to enhance the role of the senate. However, very few are proposing strengthening the control mechanisms over governments: there will have to be thorough checks and balances, including better protection of the impartiality of the civil service, which is meant to be politically neutral.An autonomous, non-politicised civil service is lacking, especially at sub-national government levels. Few civil servants dare oppose legally or ethically dubious instructions from their superiors, and those who do face reprisals.No collective sphere is free from party politics. There is an urgent need for institutional designs and procedures that promote legality, accountability and transparency in government if the population's disaffection is to be overcome and corruption reduced.Francisco Cardona is a senior international expert on public governance. He used to work for the OECD", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local government", "Service delivery", "Local government", "Society"], "title": "Spain must combat corruption in local government"},{"date": "2014-01-23T15:03:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "One of Europe's top currency forgers has been arrested, Spanish police said.The 60-year-old man, whom police called \"a real artist\" of counterfeit money, had worked with such a degree of perfectionism that his \u20ac50 note ranked among Europe's top 10 imitation bills.Following a year-long investigation, officials from Spain's national police and Europol detained the man on Monday in the garage of his house outside Toledo.\"It would be easy to fool anyone with these bills. They're very well done,\" said a chief inspector with the investigation, adding that the man was a self-taught graphic artist who had previously worked in the printing business.Police said the quality of the man's bills \u2013 and the sheer volume he produced \u2013 had made him one of the top counterfeiters in Europe. \"This type of counterfeiter,\" said the inspector, \"they have a big ego and a big drive to excel. Logically they keep trying to outdo themselves because its an illegal product and the better it's made, the more popular it will be on the black market.\"The garage of the man's modest home had been turned into a workshop, with every inch of its cramped, messy space filled with printers, stamps and ink cartridges. Police also seized a homemade oven, described as a type of microwave, designed to dry the counterfeit notes.Full pages of printed-out \u20ac50 notes sat on a worktable, waiting to be cut. Crumpled-up printouts of rejected notes sat in the rubbish bin.Along with his signature \u20ac50 notes, police found stacks of dollar bills, which will be sent to the US for further analysis. A box full of printer paper was also seized, with the heads of former American presidents embossed several times on each page. Police say the man also falsified passports for various European countries.His euros crisscrossed the continent, ending up as far as Germany and Romania. Police were able to recoup counterfeitedimitation notes worth \u20ac310,000 (\u00a3255,000) but estimate that \u20ac1m of counterfeit notes is still floating around Spain and potentially the rest of Europe.The reach of the man's notes was even more impressive for the fact that he had only started counterfeiting two years ago. Police said they put an end to his counterfeiting career at a critical point, just as he was about to multiply his business threefold.Four others were arrested as part of the operation, including the man's 45-year-old wife. The three others, said police, worked to introduce the counterfeit notes into the economy.More arrests are expected in the case, as police believe the man worked with a team of about 30 people.", "tags": ["Spain", "Euro", "Europe", "Currencies", "Consumer rights", "Economics", "Money", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Counterfeiter with perfectionist streak arrested in Spain"},{"date": "2014-03-25T13:21:44Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Hotel Fuerte Conil can't be called budget in high season, when prices rocket, but, for anyone lucky enough not to have school-age children, it can be a bargain in autumn or spring. It's part of a small chain but despite the fact it has a whopping 469 spacious rooms, the hotel has lots of personal touches, including a botanical garden complete with a random pony keeping the grass short. Inside, it has the feel of a kind of a sprawling Roman palace, the two outdoor pools shielded from the wind by the gleaming white buildings that surround them. For anyone who inexplicably wants to leave, Fontanilla beach is directly beneath the hotel and the centre of Conil, a likeable, white-washed fishing town, is just a few minutes' walk away.\u2022 0800 021 1397, fuertehoteles.com/conil-cadiz, doubles from \u20ac61The 11 rooms at Hospeder\u00eda Santiago are painted in tones of deep peach and the reception is in front of a traditional tiled patio, with plants trailing from the arches. Breakfast is a basket of small cakes. In fact, pretty much the only evidence of foreign influence is that there's a kettle in every room so you can make yourself a cup of tea. Apart from its low rates and Andalusian charm, though, the main reason this hotel is so popular with Spanish guests is that it's 100 metres from one of the Costa de la Luz's best family beaches, Playa de la Barrosa, and its almost four miles of fine, golden sand.\u2022 +34 956 494840, hospederiasantiago.com, doubles from \u20ac55The first thing you'll hear in the morning at Hostal Reyes will probably be the cockerel that lives on the farm behind crying \"kiki ri ki!\", the Spanish for \"cock-a-doodle-do!\" Either that or it'll be the steady crash of the waves. There's not much else around. The hotel, a simple establishment with nine sky-blue rooms above a restaurant specialising in the local fish, is right on El Palmar beach. Directly in front is a wooden walkway that leads you over sand dunes knotted together with long grass and wild flowers. The beach is popular with surfers but, happily, the developers have left it well alone.\u2022 +34 956 232211, hostalreyes.com, doubles from \u20ac50Taking your breakfast in Hotel Misiana's restaurant, light pouring in through the big, patio doors, is one of the best ways to start the day in Tarifa. Although it's on the corner of a busy street in the heart of the town, it's five minutes' walk from the port and less than 10 minutes from the beach. With 14 beautifully designed, pastel-coloured rooms and a classic \"azulejo\" glazed-tile floor in the lobby, it's also one of the most stylish hotels on the coast. This is the place to come if you like wind-surfing, kite-surfing, nightlife, or any combination of the above. It's probably not the place to come, however, if you like to lie down on the beach. Unless you also enjoy being efficiently sand-blasted by the near continuous breeze that makes Tarifa the wind-sports capital of Spain.\u2022 +34 956 627083, misiana.com, doubles from \u20ac55Just under four miles outside Tarifa, right on the Playa de Los Lances beach, the hotel Arte Vida has a spectacular position. The sky is alive with kites and a cool, young crowd hangs out in hammocks, wicker chairs and sofas around its own chiringuito (beach bar), music playing throughout the afternoons. The 11 rooms are basic, with a beach-hut vibe, each one with a direct sea view. Across the sea, so close that you feel like you could swim to it in an afternoon, is the coastline of Africa and the looming Atlas mountains.\u2022 +34 956 685246, hotelartevidatarifa.com, doubles from \u20ac80Just over half a mile further up the coast from Hotel Arte Vida, the Hotel Hurricane has an equally gorgeous location but with more of a grown-up, family vibe. There's a small swimming pool with views across the sea and the hotel is surrounded by tropical gardens and palm trees. Steps lead directly down from the front of the pool to the rocks and on to a broad expanse of sand. The 28 rooms, 16 looking out to the mountains and 12 towards the sea, are simple, but with comfortable beds, white-washed walls and terracotta-tiled floors.\u2022 +34 956 684919, hotelhurricane.com, doubles from \u20ac87One of the most impressive sights on Playa de Los Lances is that of horse-riders cantering along the shoreline. Many of the horses will come from the stables at Hotel Dos Mares, the biggest of the three hotels along this beautiful beach. It looks deceptively small from the shoreline, blending discreetly into the sand behind its palm trees, tan walls and discreet, blue-tiled roof but it has a good-sized swimming pool, tennis and padel (similar to squash) courts, as well as 35 bungalows, eight double rooms and four suites.\u2022 +34 956 684035, dosmareshotel.com, doubles from \u20ac63The little town of Zahara de los Atunes is on the way to precisely nowhere, unless you're a bluefin tuna, in which case it's a kind of a motorway service station on a long journey from the Atlantic to spawn in the Mediterranean. That's what, literally, gave the town its name \u2013 and fish still play an important role at the Hotel Avenida Playa, on a corner between the river, the beach and the small castle. The eight, bright orange rooms, generously sized for the price, play second fiddle to the restaurant downstairs, where you'll find owner Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda holding court, while son Juan Jos\u00e9 performs magic with the tuna.\u2022 +34 956 439338, avenidaplayahotel.com, doubles from \u20ac45At the other end of town from Avenida Playa, Hotel Porfirio is more upmarket, with a design that's a cross between a modern loft apartment \u2013 all jaunty skylights and smooth wooden beams \u2013 and a traditional Spanish villa. The hotel was built in 1999 and has been sensitively added to, to the point where it now has 65 rooms. When the wind blows as \u2013 we might have mentioned, it often does here \u2013 guests shelter around the pool which is surrounded on all sides. On still days, though, there's a pleasant three-minute walk, across the road, along a wooden walkway, over the scrubby sand dunes, to an enormous beach that dwarfs the town itself.\u2022 +34 956 449515, hotelporfirio.com, doubles from \u20ac60The position may seem a little underwhelming: stuck out on the edge of a main road, but El Capi is a great option for exploring Zahora beach, one of the best along the coast. The hotel itself is arranged around a grassy square with a large tree in the centre. Each of the 26 basic rooms has its own porch, the white arches hung with plants. Turn right out of the hotel, though, and walk 10 minutes down a country lane and Zahora beach is unspoilt and beautifully sheltered. It is formed into a bay by two rocky outcrops, one topped by the white, 19th-century Trafalgar lighthouse. As well as flat sand there are rock pools and a very nice chiringuito (beach bar).\u2022 +34 956 437070, elcapi.com, doubles from \u20ac45", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Beach holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Budget travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Top 10 budget beach hotels in Andaluc\u00eda, Spain: part two"},{"date": "2014-03-25T16:44:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "To lose one top editor at a major Spanish newspaper may be regarded as a misfortune. To lose two looks like carelessness. But when Spain's three leading dailies each replace their editors in as many months, it's clear that something is afoot.Many explain the changes in leadership at El Pa\u00eds, El Mundo and La Vanguardia by pointing to the country's economic crisis, which has caused advertising revenue to shrink and circulations to drop. Others evoke a storyline familiar to newspapers the world over: the migration of readers from print to the internet.But media analysts in Spain say there is another factor in play. Nearly 40 years after the country's transition to democracy, there have been more than 300 journalism startups. Staffed by a mix of veteran journalists laid off during the economic crisis and young journalists trying to gain a foothold in an industry where few are hiring, the startups tout themselves as willing to ask the questions that traditional Spanish media will not.As Spain teetered on the brink of financial meltdown, Spaniards started demanding more accountability from their institutions, said Rafael An\u00edbal, a former journalist who now works in communications. \"People went looking for sources of information that aren't directly related to power.\"In contrast, traditional media sought to weather the crisis by becoming more institutionalised. An\u00edbal pointed to the country's leading daily, El Pa\u00eds, founded in the late 1970s, just months after the death of the dictator Francisco Franco. Mired in debt, the paper's owner, Prisa, recently struck a deal that would earn it a reprieve from creditors but see 16% of its shares handed over to the company's bankers.The result, said former El Pa\u00eds journalist Pere Rusi\u00f1ol, is that it is now impossible to untangle the paper's coverage from its financial situation. \"You can't have press freedom in a company that's bankrupt and belongs to the bank.\"He cited a Spanish national court investigation into a Swiss bank account with ties to the Bot\u00edn family, which runs Santander bank. \"This was a news story that appeared in all the international papers. But El Pa\u00eds didn't put it on the front page,\" said Rusi\u00f1ol, who now works with the satirical magazine Mongolia and the monthly Alternativas Econ\u00f3micas. \"There's a lot of evidence to show that it's not possible to do any kind of journalism \u2013 or anything even minimally worthy of the name \u2013 in traditional media.\"When El Mundo's Pedro J Ram\u00edrez was ousted this year, the editor played up the notion that political forces had exerted considerable influence on the newsroom. In his final editorial as director of the paper he had founded 25 years earlier, he linked his fate to the paper's reporting on the alleged secret payments that had the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, fending off calls for resignation. \"This power has converted El Mundo into an outcast and the big companies of the Ibex [stock market index] \u2013 with a few honourable exceptions \u2013 acted accordingly.\" Ram\u00edrez remains with the paper as a columnist.Ram\u00f3n Salaverr\u00eda, author of several books on Spain's media landscape, cautioned against writing off traditional media in Spain just yet. Two of Spain's top online startups, the centre-right El Confidencial \u2013 now the country's most-read online daily \u2013 and the left-leaning eldiario.es get more than 5m hits a month and have \"unquestionable influence\", said Salaverr\u00eda. But El Pa\u00eds and El Mundo continue to be the papers of record in Spain, and attract audiences three times the size of even the most successful startups, he said.Startups say their focus has shifted to increasing audiences. People working for eight startups will take to the streets on 30 March to hand out a one-day newspaper, compiled using content from each of their projects. The goal, according to the team behind the initiative, is to introduce Spaniards to media that are divorced from traditional power structures and institutions.Reporters at El Pa\u00eds were hesitant to speak on the record about pressures on the newsroom. But as one reporter said, \"Everybody knows here that if you start working on a story about a bank, nobody is ever going to tell you that you shouldn't do it. They're going to tell you that you don't have enough to back the story, or that this story isn't what you think it is.\"Some of this reluctance was tied to newspapers' history, he said. \"We were created to change this country, we helped to change it and then we ended up thinking that some of our obligation is to defend democracy and the system as well.\"Javier Moreno, the outgoing editor at El Pa\u00eds, denied any claims of influence over the newsroom. \"I can honestly say I've never had pressure of any type from shareholders or advertisers.\"His replacement, Antonio Ca\u00f1o, who will take over in May, bristled at the comparison between startups and traditional media. \"We are a quality paper, we have to confirm things, we have to check stories before running. But we are going to cover corruption anywhere it happens.\"Ca\u00f1o emphasised that he had spent more than half of his 30-year reporting career as a foreign correspondent. \"I'm not the classic profile of an editor of Spanish newspaper. Traditionally they have connections and friends. I don't have that kind of network. I'm new to this place.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Media", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Media revolution in Spain as readers search for new voices"},{"date": "2014-03-06T18:26:24Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain is to spend more than \u20ac2.3m (\u00a31.89m) fortifying the borders that divide its territories of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, in an attempt to deter the thousands of migrants who arrive at the borders of its two exclaves in north Africa, the country's interior minister has announced.Reinforcements to be added in the coming weeks include lining the six-metre-high fences that surround both cities with a type of mesh meant to \"impede anyone from climbing\", Jorge Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz told reporters.In Ceuta, an additional 20 Guardia Civil agents will be deployed and a helicopter will now help with the \"dissuasion and detection\" of migrants. In Melilla, the government will set up three watch towers equipped with heat-sensitive cameras.The announcement comes as the Spanish government faces criticism from EU officials, who have said they are \"very concerned\" over the country's response to sub-Saharan Africans and other immigrants who flock to the Spanish territories, desperately seeking better lives in Europe.Last month, 15 migrants drowned in the Mediterranean after dozens tried to enter Ceuta by swimming around the man-made breakwater that separates Moroccan and Spanish waters. Migrants said that Spanish police had tried to keep them in Moroccan territory by firing rubber bullets at them and spraying them with tear gas as they tried to swim to Spanish land.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz later said that police had indeed fired rubber bullets, but that they were \"fired at the water, not at people\". He denied that police actions played any role in the drowning of the migrants.A court in Ceuta has opened an investigation into the incident, but the ruling People's party used its majority in parliament to block a request by opposition parties for a further investigation by a parliamentary commission.Each year, thousands of Africans \u2013 many of whom have spent years travelling across north and sub-Saharan Africa \u2013 try to gain entry into the EU either by swimming along the coast or climbing the three rows of fences lined with razor wire that mark the border between Morocco and the enclaves. Many of them live in rough, makeshift campgrounds on the Moroccan side, waiting for an opportunity to rush the frontier.After nearly a decade of relative calm, the numbers of migrants attempting to cross into Ceuta and Melilla have risen in the past few years. Around 3,000 illegal migrants entered Spain in the first half of last year, according to government statistics, double the figure for the same period in 2012.More than 200 migrants managed to scale the triple fence in Melilla last week, whooping with joy and kissing the ground as they celebrated a crossing they hoped would allow them to stay in Europe.Days later, emboldened by news that Spanish police had been banned from firing rubber bullets and rumours that Spain would soon be reinforcing the fences, some 700 sub-Saharan migrants attempted to cross into Ceuta from Morocco. While many of them were turned away by Moroccan forces, authorities said it was the largest group of migrants they had ever seen attempt to scale the fence at once.The borders have also been attracting migrants from outside Africa. Last month, Spanish police closed a border crossing into Melilla after being tipped off that a large number of Syrian migrants were going to try to push across.As tensions rise at their north African borders, Spain's approach to the migrants has earned them criticism, both at home and in the EU. Past weeks have seen hundreds of Spaniards take to the streets in protest, carrying signs reading, \"Ceuta: the shame of Europe\" and \"More bridges. No walls.\"The European commissioner for home affairs, Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, has also expressed her concern, particularly over last month's incident in Ceuta. In a letter to the Spanish government, she asked if the firing of rubber bullets \"could have provoked panic among the group of immigrants\" and so played a role in the 15 deaths.Fern\u00e1ndez D\u00edaz met her this week to defend the country's actions at the border, arguing that Spain is simply protecting the border on behalf of all of Europe. To reinforce his point that this issue is a European one rather than a Spanish domestic affair, the interior minister asked Brussels for \u20ac45m to help ease what he described as an \"emergency situation\" in Ceuta and Melilla.The meeting was just the latest in a long list of diplomatic conflicts spurred on by Ceuta and Melilla. The Spanish exclaves have also been a constant thorn in Moroccan and Spanish diplomatic relations. Much like Gibraltar, the residents in the two territories proudly declare themselves loyal to Spain, a country that lies across the sea, rather than to Morocco, the one that surrounds them.But unlike Gibraltar, where the Spanish government continues to noisily press its claim to the territory, attempts by Morocco to claim Ceuta and Melilla have been quietly ignored.Instead, the Spanish government has shut down any attempt to draw parallels between the territories, arguing that the situations are completely different and cannot be compared.", "tags": ["Spain", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain to raise security around Morocco territories over immigration fears"},{"date": "2014-03-03T17:46:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, has poured cold water on claims from the Spanish government that the recession is over and the country is on the road to recovery.Speaking at the Global Forum on Spain in Bilbao she said: \"Thanks to the formidable actions over the past five years, Europe \u2013 and Spain \u2013are now turning the corner. Yet the task is far from finished. Growth remains too low and unemployment too high for us to declare victory on the crisis.\"The scars of the crisis run deep and will take years to heal, Lagarde said. \"There is no doubt that the reforms that I have outlined for Europe and for Spain will take several years of determined efforts by both government and society.\" The good news, she said, is that Spanish exports have risen faster than Germany's.Insisting that the \"strong reform momentum must be maintained\", she called for a continued shakeup of the labour market, and said reforms \"should not benefit those in work but those without it\".But she was immediately attacked for, in effect, advocating more wage cuts.Joaqu\u00edn Almunia, the European competition commissioner, who was also in Bilbao, criticised Lagarde for calling for wage cuts, which he said would be \"neither sensitive, reasonable nor fair\".\"Sacrifice has to be shared, and economists should not demand what is not viable in practice,\" he said.She pointed to three key areas that need reform. The first is the labour market, but she said the reforms \"shouldn't benefit those in work but those without it.\"The Spanish government has already made it much easier for firms to sack employees, and has pushed down wages. Last week the Bank of Spain insisted that since the crisis began wages have fallen twice as fast as the government claims they have.If the lowest paid who had lost their jobs were taken out of the equation, the wages of those still in work could be seen to have declined sharply, the bank said.Lagarde also singled out the high level of debt, calling on the government to reduce its deficit by raising VAT and income tax.Her third target was reform of the business environment, in which companies, especially new ones, are hamstrung by a labyrinthine bureaucracy. \"Making it easier for businesses to start up and grow will lift their capacity to create employment,\" she said. \"Making domestic firms more competitive will also boost their employment and productivity.\"Luis De Guindos, the Spanish finance minister, insisted that \"unlike 2011, this is not a false recovery\". However, he said it remained \"tenuous and soft\".Meanwhile, groups of hooded demonstrators protesting at the summit chanted \"Troika, go home!\" and rioted in central Bilbao, smashing the windows of banks and setting fire to rubbish containers.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Christine Lagarde", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Spain", "Economics", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Christine Lagarde angers Spain with repeat prescription of austerity"},{"date": "2014-02-14T12:39:53Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish judge who made headlines around the world for pursuing foreign dictators from his court in Madrid has spoken out against his government's move to limit cross-border justice, and warned that the proposed changes are part of a wider step backwards on human rights in Spain.Spanish MPs voted on Tuesday to usher in a fast-track reform that would drastically impede judges from investigating crimes outside of Spain's borders.For nearly two decades, Spanish judges have used the doctrine of universal jurisdiction to investigate human rights abuses in countries including Guatemala, Chad and Argentina.Most famously, the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet was arrested in London in 1998 on the orders of the Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n. Pinochet was eventually returned to Chile for medical reasons, but Garz\u00f3n's actions were credited with sparking a revolution in international justice.The reform introduced last month by Spain's governing People's party stipulates that universal jurisdiction will now only be applied when the defendant is a Spanish citizen or a foreign national resident in Spain. The reform is expected to be passed within months, after which interest groups will no longer be allowed to bring cases forward, only public prosecutors.In an interview in his office in central Madrid, Garz\u00f3n described the government's reform as absurd. Judges would not be able to investigate foreign crimes against humanity, genocides and war crimes, he said. \"The conditions that they're imposing are so exorbitant that it would be almost impossible to prosecute these crimes.\"The changes come just as the Spanish government faces a backlash from China over the use of universal jurisdiction. This week a Spanish court ordered Interpol to issue arrest warrants for five Chinese leaders, including the former president Jiang Zemin, citing their responsibility for alleged human rights abuses in Tibet decades ago.The arrest orders put the Spanish government \u2013 which was looking to bolster the country's fragile economic recovery through increased trade with China \u2013 at loggerheads with its own judicial system. \"The economic crisis has put us in a dire situation,\" said Garz\u00f3n, \"but I don't believe the solution to all of our problems lies in negotiating with China and not demanding that they comply with human rights standards.\"He bristled at the thought of prioritising economic gain over human rights. \"These are the principles on which civilisation is built,\" he said. \"Sometimes upholding and maintaining the principles of dignity for human beings comes at a cost.\"One of Spain's best-known judges, Garz\u00f3n's career has been celebrated and controversial. His judicial career in Spain ended two years ago when he was convicted of illegally ordering the wiretapping of conversations between defence lawyers and clients in a corruption case involving the People's party.He was banned from the bench for 11 years, on top of a previous suspension in 2010 for investigating the killing of 114,000 people during the Franco regime. A 2012 rally for his reinstatement to the bench drew a crowd of more than 10,000 people, many of whom interpreted his suspension as a punishment for tackling vested interests.The 58-year-old now heads the legal counsel for WikiLeaks as well as FIBGAR, a foundation in Madrid dedicated to promoting human rights. His institution was one of 17 organisations that signed a letter this week urging the government to abandon its reform of universal jurisdiction. \"It's like talking to a wall. They're deaf, mute and blind to our protests,\" Garz\u00f3n said of the government's response.The government has defended the reform. Alfonso Alonso, a People's party spokesman, said universal jurisdiction \"promises a lot but leads to nothing more than diplomatic conflicts\".In his aggressive use of the doctrine to investigate human rights abuses in countries ranging from Rwanda to Argentina, Garz\u00f3n saw universal jurisdiction as having preventive value, serving as a \"warning to dictators and oppressors around the world that somewhere there will be a judicial response to their actions\".He pointed out that the reform could also have ripple effects inside Spain, as it would hinder investigations into organised crime and terrorist organisations that are active in Spain but whose leaders reside in foreign countries.When considered in context with the other laws being pushed by the Spanish government, Garz\u00f3n said, a worrisome pattern emerged. \"We are moving backwards in terms of human rights,\" he said, pointing to proposed legislation that would roll back abortion law by restricting access and impose fines of up to \u20ac30,000 (\u00a325,000) for protesting without permission. \"This step backwards is not good for Spain's image on the world stage. We're becoming something very vague and very strange.\"He was quick to answer where the change was coming from. \"It's a question of ideology put forward by the People's party.\" He sat back for a moment, considering his next words carefully. \"It's like we have a type of Tea Party that's taking us back to a place we overcame a long time ago.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Spain regressing on human rights, says judge who pursued Pinochet"},{"date": "2014-06-02T21:51:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The 10-year-old schoolboy who boarded a train from Lisbon to Madrid on 8 November, 1948, can have had no idea of the extraordinary life that awaited him in Spain. Juan Carlos spoke Spanish with a French accent, had never before been on Spanish soil and was to be, in effect, the ward of Francisco Franco, an arrangement arrived at after difficult negotiations between his liberal father and the dictator.It was by no means clear at that moment whether he would become king or just another of Spain's many royal also-rans, as there were several contenders who might have won Franco's favour in the years before Spain's transition to democracy. But he was to be an essential figure in that transition, and in maintaining Spain's stability and unity in the post-Franco era. Nobody who saw the crowds cheering the royal family at the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, where their attendance at any event seemed to be almost a guarantee that Spain would win, could doubt that Juan Carlos had captured the affections and the loyalty of most Spaniards. But in recent years his popularity declined because of the self-indulgent strain in his character.He had too many affairs. He plunged off to Africa to shoot elephants at a time when Spain was in severe recession, an outing that scored no points on either the political or the ecological fronts. His daughter and son-in-law were embroiled in a financial scandal. His role in quashing the 1981 coup, once seen as unambiguously positive, is now viewed by some in a rather different light.Although he still deserves great credit for ordering the generals back to barracks, he may have played a part in creating the conditions for a coup attempt by earlier manoeuvres to get rid of prime minister Adolfo Su\u00e1rez. Now, by his decision to abdicate, he has done a great deal to rescue a compromised reputation.Like Pope Benedict, he has recognised that age and infirmity may these days call for an earlier departure from these historically lifetime roles than death. And he has ceded his position to a young man who is both popular and experienced \u2013 he was at his father's side in 1981, for instance \u2013 and can offer a sort of new start for the monarchy.Spain has few out and out republicans and not many passionate royalists, so it might be said the crown is now neither here nor there. Yet it is part of the glue that holds a fragile nation together. The Basque country may be quiet, but Catalonia is heading toward an independence referendum this November, while the social divisions, widened by austerity, are producing a more volatile politics. The armed forces still take seriously, perhaps too seriously, a duty to preserve Spanish unity. There may be troubles ahead in which a respected monarch could play a useful part.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: royal renewal | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-06-02T21:51:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The 10-year-old schoolboy who boarded a train from Lisbon to Madrid on 8 November, 1948, can have had no idea of the extraordinary life that awaited him in Spain. Juan Carlos spoke Spanish with a French accent, had never before been on Spanish soil and was to be, in effect, the ward of Francisco Franco, an arrangement arrived at after difficult negotiations between his liberal father and the dictator.It was by no means clear at that moment whether he would become king or just another of Spain's many royal also-rans, as there were several contenders who might have won Franco's favour in the years before Spain's transition to democracy. But he was to be an essential figure in that transition, and in maintaining Spain's stability and unity in the post-Franco era. Nobody who saw the crowds cheering the royal family at the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, where their attendance at any event seemed to be almost a guarantee that Spain would win, could doubt that Juan Carlos had captured the affections and the loyalty of most Spaniards. But in recent years his popularity declined because of the self-indulgent strain in his character.He had too many affairs. He plunged off to Africa to shoot elephants at a time when Spain was in severe recession, an outing that scored no points on either the political or the ecological fronts. His daughter and son-in-law were embroiled in a financial scandal. His role in quashing the 1981 coup, once seen as unambiguously positive, is now viewed by some in a rather different light.Although he still deserves great credit for ordering the generals back to barracks, he may have played a part in creating the conditions for a coup attempt by earlier manoeuvres to get rid of prime minister Adolfo Su\u00e1rez. Now, by his decision to abdicate, he has done a great deal to rescue a compromised reputation.Like Pope Benedict, he has recognised that age and infirmity may these days call for an earlier departure from these historically lifetime roles than death. And he has ceded his position to a young man who is both popular and experienced \u2013 he was at his father's side in 1981, for instance \u2013 and can offer a sort of new start for the monarchy.Spain has few out and out republicans and not many passionate royalists, so it might be said the crown is now neither here nor there. Yet it is part of the glue that holds a fragile nation together. The Basque country may be quiet, but Catalonia is heading toward an independence referendum this November, while the social divisions, widened by austerity, are producing a more volatile politics. The armed forces still take seriously, perhaps too seriously, a duty to preserve Spanish unity. There may be troubles ahead in which a respected monarch could play a useful part.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: royal renewal | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Zaragoza lies in a desert valley beneath the foothills of the Pyrenees, 90 minutes north-east of Madrid and three hours west of Barcelona. So, it snoozes in the hot midday sun and gets animated in the cooler evenings. Though not on the tourist trail, it has its cultural moments \u2013 the 18th/19th-century painter Francisco Goya lived here, and there are numerous Goyas scattered around the city. The Bas\u00edlica del Pilar (pictured right) is a place of pilgimage for Spaniards, who come to plant a kiss on the pillar on which Mary is said to have appeared to James while he was preaching in 40 AD. In October, the city shakes off its desert stupor with a week-long party, the Fiestas del Pilar.Hotel Catalonia El Pilar (+ 34 976 205858, hoteles-catalonia.es) is considered a tourist attraction as well as a place to stay, as it's in a turn-of-the-century Modernista apartment block with floor-to-ceiling windows and wrought-iron balconies. There's an old open-frame lift and breakfast is served in the stone-walled former coal cellar. Rooms tend to be on the functional side of the design spectrum.The city has one Michelin-starred restaurant, La Bal d'Onsera , where Josechu Corella offers a menu featuring artichoke salad, poached egg with grilled onions and pumpkin, mushroom risotto, stewed beef with creamy mashed potato and russet sorbet, for a very reasonable \u20ac30 a head. The regional speciality, which you will find on most tapas menus, is migas: breadcrumbs fried in olive oil and served with all kinds of toppings. Museo de la Tortilla is a lunchtime-only cafe serving 23 types of omelette, including pig's ear and brain varieties.The El Tubo district is where Zaragoza goes to slake its desert thirst come nightfall. Recommended stops on the tapas crawl include Bodegas Almau, founded in 1870, and with an excellent wine selection. Almau won the city's best tapa competition in 2012 with its dulce de anchoa \u2013 bread, soft cheese, anchovy, tomato jam and grated chocolate.The Museo Ibercaja (10am-2pm and 5pm-9pm, free) is housed in a Renaissance palace, refurbished first as a bank and then as a museum, and has more than two dozen Goya etchings and 14 of his paintings, including a self-portrait. (In the Basilica del Pilar, you can crane your neck to take in famed Goya frescos on the ceiling above the choir.)\u2022 This article was amended on 27 May2014. An earlier version referred to Goya as a 17th century artist.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Spanish food and drink", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A holiday guide to Zaragoza, Spain"},{"date": "2014-06-02T21:51:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The 10-year-old schoolboy who boarded a train from Lisbon to Madrid on 8 November, 1948, can have had no idea of the extraordinary life that awaited him in Spain. Juan Carlos spoke Spanish with a French accent, had never before been on Spanish soil and was to be, in effect, the ward of Francisco Franco, an arrangement arrived at after difficult negotiations between his liberal father and the dictator.It was by no means clear at that moment whether he would become king or just another of Spain's many royal also-rans, as there were several contenders who might have won Franco's favour in the years before Spain's transition to democracy. But he was to be an essential figure in that transition, and in maintaining Spain's stability and unity in the post-Franco era. Nobody who saw the crowds cheering the royal family at the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, where their attendance at any event seemed to be almost a guarantee that Spain would win, could doubt that Juan Carlos had captured the affections and the loyalty of most Spaniards. But in recent years his popularity declined because of the self-indulgent strain in his character.He had too many affairs. He plunged off to Africa to shoot elephants at a time when Spain was in severe recession, an outing that scored no points on either the political or the ecological fronts. His daughter and son-in-law were embroiled in a financial scandal. His role in quashing the 1981 coup, once seen as unambiguously positive, is now viewed by some in a rather different light.Although he still deserves great credit for ordering the generals back to barracks, he may have played a part in creating the conditions for a coup attempt by earlier manoeuvres to get rid of prime minister Adolfo Su\u00e1rez. Now, by his decision to abdicate, he has done a great deal to rescue a compromised reputation.Like Pope Benedict, he has recognised that age and infirmity may these days call for an earlier departure from these historically lifetime roles than death. And he has ceded his position to a young man who is both popular and experienced \u2013 he was at his father's side in 1981, for instance \u2013 and can offer a sort of new start for the monarchy.Spain has few out and out republicans and not many passionate royalists, so it might be said the crown is now neither here nor there. Yet it is part of the glue that holds a fragile nation together. The Basque country may be quiet, but Catalonia is heading toward an independence referendum this November, while the social divisions, widened by austerity, are producing a more volatile politics. The armed forces still take seriously, perhaps too seriously, a duty to preserve Spanish unity. There may be troubles ahead in which a respected monarch could play a useful part.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: royal renewal | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Zaragoza lies in a desert valley beneath the foothills of the Pyrenees, 90 minutes north-east of Madrid and three hours west of Barcelona. So, it snoozes in the hot midday sun and gets animated in the cooler evenings. Though not on the tourist trail, it has its cultural moments \u2013 the 18th/19th-century painter Francisco Goya lived here, and there are numerous Goyas scattered around the city. The Bas\u00edlica del Pilar (pictured right) is a place of pilgimage for Spaniards, who come to plant a kiss on the pillar on which Mary is said to have appeared to James while he was preaching in 40 AD. In October, the city shakes off its desert stupor with a week-long party, the Fiestas del Pilar.Hotel Catalonia El Pilar (+ 34 976 205858, hoteles-catalonia.es) is considered a tourist attraction as well as a place to stay, as it's in a turn-of-the-century Modernista apartment block with floor-to-ceiling windows and wrought-iron balconies. There's an old open-frame lift and breakfast is served in the stone-walled former coal cellar. Rooms tend to be on the functional side of the design spectrum.The city has one Michelin-starred restaurant, La Bal d'Onsera , where Josechu Corella offers a menu featuring artichoke salad, poached egg with grilled onions and pumpkin, mushroom risotto, stewed beef with creamy mashed potato and russet sorbet, for a very reasonable \u20ac30 a head. The regional speciality, which you will find on most tapas menus, is migas: breadcrumbs fried in olive oil and served with all kinds of toppings. Museo de la Tortilla is a lunchtime-only cafe serving 23 types of omelette, including pig's ear and brain varieties.The El Tubo district is where Zaragoza goes to slake its desert thirst come nightfall. Recommended stops on the tapas crawl include Bodegas Almau, founded in 1870, and with an excellent wine selection. Almau won the city's best tapa competition in 2012 with its dulce de anchoa \u2013 bread, soft cheese, anchovy, tomato jam and grated chocolate.The Museo Ibercaja (10am-2pm and 5pm-9pm, free) is housed in a Renaissance palace, refurbished first as a bank and then as a museum, and has more than two dozen Goya etchings and 14 of his paintings, including a self-portrait. (In the Basilica del Pilar, you can crane your neck to take in famed Goya frescos on the ceiling above the choir.)\u2022 This article was amended on 27 May2014. An earlier version referred to Goya as a 17th century artist.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Spanish food and drink", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A holiday guide to Zaragoza, Spain"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The awakening of this city and its surrounding province in south-eastern Spain follows the model of Bilbao, where government money and contemporary art also played a significant role. Murcia city is now a hot spot for top curators, and a dozen new galleries, museums and art spaces have popped up. It is also home to what many say are the best tapas bars (pictured) in Spain, a happy result of the city's prime spot between some of the country's richest arable land and the Mediterranean \u2014 seafood, tomatoes and pata negra ham being the jewels in the culinary crown.The arty crowd needs to start throwing a hissy fit here, because tastefully inspired places to stay are still conspicuous by their absence in the city. The least offensive bet for designer sensibilities is Arco de San Juan (+34 968 210455, arcosanjuan.com), a former 18th-century palace in the heart of the city.The tapas in Murcia are revered by Spanish chefs, and the pretty Plaza de las Flores in the historic centre is the best place to start a tapas crawl. El Bolito (Plaza Santa Catalina 1) serves great tortas de camarones (shrimp fritters), La Tapa (Plaza de Flores 12) does great plates of ham, and La Mejillonera (Plaza Cardenal Belluga, 7) offers mussels spiked with cumin and chilli. An hour west of the city in the hill town of Moratalla is El Olivar (+34 968 724054) one of the best restaurants in the region, run by chef Firo V\u00e1zquez.Take your pick of bars to enjoy a cold glass of Estrella Levante, the local lager, but Los Zagales (\"The Kids\", Calle Polo de Medina 4) is a great old-school bar, whose kitchen sends out succulent fried squid and quail's egg canapes to be enjoyed beneath fading photographs of football teams and bullfighters. Bar Warhol (Calle Victorio 25) is a lively spot (though you have to go late \u2013 and that means around 1am \u2013 as the locals do), popular with students, that often has live music nights and photography exhibitions.Beyond the grand cathedral, bishop's palace and ancient Roman ruins are a number of commerical art galleries that punch above their weight in provincial Spain. Espacio AV (manifesta8.com/espacio_av) is a \"white cube\" hosting contemporary art, photography and video shows. Galeria T20, on the other side of the old town, focuses on emerging artists.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Spanish food and drink", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Bars and clubs", "Travel"], "title": "Holiday guide to Murcia, Spain"},{"date": "2014-06-02T21:51:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The 10-year-old schoolboy who boarded a train from Lisbon to Madrid on 8 November, 1948, can have had no idea of the extraordinary life that awaited him in Spain. Juan Carlos spoke Spanish with a French accent, had never before been on Spanish soil and was to be, in effect, the ward of Francisco Franco, an arrangement arrived at after difficult negotiations between his liberal father and the dictator.It was by no means clear at that moment whether he would become king or just another of Spain's many royal also-rans, as there were several contenders who might have won Franco's favour in the years before Spain's transition to democracy. But he was to be an essential figure in that transition, and in maintaining Spain's stability and unity in the post-Franco era. Nobody who saw the crowds cheering the royal family at the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, where their attendance at any event seemed to be almost a guarantee that Spain would win, could doubt that Juan Carlos had captured the affections and the loyalty of most Spaniards. But in recent years his popularity declined because of the self-indulgent strain in his character.He had too many affairs. He plunged off to Africa to shoot elephants at a time when Spain was in severe recession, an outing that scored no points on either the political or the ecological fronts. His daughter and son-in-law were embroiled in a financial scandal. His role in quashing the 1981 coup, once seen as unambiguously positive, is now viewed by some in a rather different light.Although he still deserves great credit for ordering the generals back to barracks, he may have played a part in creating the conditions for a coup attempt by earlier manoeuvres to get rid of prime minister Adolfo Su\u00e1rez. Now, by his decision to abdicate, he has done a great deal to rescue a compromised reputation.Like Pope Benedict, he has recognised that age and infirmity may these days call for an earlier departure from these historically lifetime roles than death. And he has ceded his position to a young man who is both popular and experienced \u2013 he was at his father's side in 1981, for instance \u2013 and can offer a sort of new start for the monarchy.Spain has few out and out republicans and not many passionate royalists, so it might be said the crown is now neither here nor there. Yet it is part of the glue that holds a fragile nation together. The Basque country may be quiet, but Catalonia is heading toward an independence referendum this November, while the social divisions, widened by austerity, are producing a more volatile politics. The armed forces still take seriously, perhaps too seriously, a duty to preserve Spanish unity. There may be troubles ahead in which a respected monarch could play a useful part.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: royal renewal | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Zaragoza lies in a desert valley beneath the foothills of the Pyrenees, 90 minutes north-east of Madrid and three hours west of Barcelona. So, it snoozes in the hot midday sun and gets animated in the cooler evenings. Though not on the tourist trail, it has its cultural moments \u2013 the 18th/19th-century painter Francisco Goya lived here, and there are numerous Goyas scattered around the city. The Bas\u00edlica del Pilar (pictured right) is a place of pilgimage for Spaniards, who come to plant a kiss on the pillar on which Mary is said to have appeared to James while he was preaching in 40 AD. In October, the city shakes off its desert stupor with a week-long party, the Fiestas del Pilar.Hotel Catalonia El Pilar (+ 34 976 205858, hoteles-catalonia.es) is considered a tourist attraction as well as a place to stay, as it's in a turn-of-the-century Modernista apartment block with floor-to-ceiling windows and wrought-iron balconies. There's an old open-frame lift and breakfast is served in the stone-walled former coal cellar. Rooms tend to be on the functional side of the design spectrum.The city has one Michelin-starred restaurant, La Bal d'Onsera , where Josechu Corella offers a menu featuring artichoke salad, poached egg with grilled onions and pumpkin, mushroom risotto, stewed beef with creamy mashed potato and russet sorbet, for a very reasonable \u20ac30 a head. The regional speciality, which you will find on most tapas menus, is migas: breadcrumbs fried in olive oil and served with all kinds of toppings. Museo de la Tortilla is a lunchtime-only cafe serving 23 types of omelette, including pig's ear and brain varieties.The El Tubo district is where Zaragoza goes to slake its desert thirst come nightfall. Recommended stops on the tapas crawl include Bodegas Almau, founded in 1870, and with an excellent wine selection. Almau won the city's best tapa competition in 2012 with its dulce de anchoa \u2013 bread, soft cheese, anchovy, tomato jam and grated chocolate.The Museo Ibercaja (10am-2pm and 5pm-9pm, free) is housed in a Renaissance palace, refurbished first as a bank and then as a museum, and has more than two dozen Goya etchings and 14 of his paintings, including a self-portrait. (In the Basilica del Pilar, you can crane your neck to take in famed Goya frescos on the ceiling above the choir.)\u2022 This article was amended on 27 May2014. An earlier version referred to Goya as a 17th century artist.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Spanish food and drink", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A holiday guide to Zaragoza, Spain"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The awakening of this city and its surrounding province in south-eastern Spain follows the model of Bilbao, where government money and contemporary art also played a significant role. Murcia city is now a hot spot for top curators, and a dozen new galleries, museums and art spaces have popped up. It is also home to what many say are the best tapas bars (pictured) in Spain, a happy result of the city's prime spot between some of the country's richest arable land and the Mediterranean \u2014 seafood, tomatoes and pata negra ham being the jewels in the culinary crown.The arty crowd needs to start throwing a hissy fit here, because tastefully inspired places to stay are still conspicuous by their absence in the city. The least offensive bet for designer sensibilities is Arco de San Juan (+34 968 210455, arcosanjuan.com), a former 18th-century palace in the heart of the city.The tapas in Murcia are revered by Spanish chefs, and the pretty Plaza de las Flores in the historic centre is the best place to start a tapas crawl. El Bolito (Plaza Santa Catalina 1) serves great tortas de camarones (shrimp fritters), La Tapa (Plaza de Flores 12) does great plates of ham, and La Mejillonera (Plaza Cardenal Belluga, 7) offers mussels spiked with cumin and chilli. An hour west of the city in the hill town of Moratalla is El Olivar (+34 968 724054) one of the best restaurants in the region, run by chef Firo V\u00e1zquez.Take your pick of bars to enjoy a cold glass of Estrella Levante, the local lager, but Los Zagales (\"The Kids\", Calle Polo de Medina 4) is a great old-school bar, whose kitchen sends out succulent fried squid and quail's egg canapes to be enjoyed beneath fading photographs of football teams and bullfighters. Bar Warhol (Calle Victorio 25) is a lively spot (though you have to go late \u2013 and that means around 1am \u2013 as the locals do), popular with students, that often has live music nights and photography exhibitions.Beyond the grand cathedral, bishop's palace and ancient Roman ruins are a number of commerical art galleries that punch above their weight in provincial Spain. Espacio AV (manifesta8.com/espacio_av) is a \"white cube\" hosting contemporary art, photography and video shows. Galeria T20, on the other side of the old town, focuses on emerging artists.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Spanish food and drink", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Bars and clubs", "Travel"], "title": "Holiday guide to Murcia, Spain"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The New York Times called Burgos \"an ancient city with a fresh face and culinary buzz\". It's a medieval city two-and-a-half hours north of Madrid, and its cathedral is one of Spain's jewels. The fresh face comes in the form of the Museum of Human Evolution (see below) and a first wave of boutique hotels. And the culinary buzz was generated by Burgos being gastronomic capital of Spain last year. Most of the 17 rooms in Hotel V\u00eda G\u00f3tica (hotelviagotica.com/en) have balcony views over the Arlanz\u00f3n river to the cathedral and the city gate. Inside, bold, modern decor, includes photographic murals over the beds and compact bathrooms in frosted-glass boxes in the rooms. The location is ideal for exploring the city.Burgos is famous for three specialities: blood sausage (morcilla), sheep's cheese (queso de Burgos) and Ribero del Duero wine. Classic cuisine is of the hearty variety \u2013 suckling pig, beef-and-potato soup \u2013 but young chefs have introduced a lighter note. Sa\u00fal G\u00f3mez offers a cosmopolitan menu at his Blue Gallery (Paseo Comuneros de Castilla 19, +34 947 057451) with dishes such as dashi soup, tataki duck and Singapore crab. And at T\u00e0bula Gastro & Bar  Patxi \u00c1lvarez and Elena P\u00e9rez serve stuffed pig's ears and tuna tartar. The Bodegas Portia , a 40-minute drive away in Gumiel de Iz\u00e1n, offers excellent Ribero del Duero wines in a Norman Foster-designed building. In town, Calle del Huerto del Rey, north-east of the cathedral, has dozens of bars, as does Calle La Puebla. La Buena Vida Urban Caf\u00e9 (Calle San Juan 39) is one of the most stylish hangouts, playing anything from jazz to electronic music to a young crowd, while Cervecer\u00eda El Morito (Calle Sombrerer\u00eda 27), between Plaza Mayor and the cathedral, is a local institution offering traditional tapas and raciones.Burgos has its 13th-century cathedral, Las Huelgas Reales monastery and Cartuja de Miraflores abbey, but the Museum of Human Evolution, designed by award-winning architect Juan Navarro Baldeweg, steals the glory. And 10 miles to the west, served by shuttle bus from the museum, is the Sierra de Atapuerca, a Unesco world heritage site and location of some of the most important human fossil finds.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Food and drink", "Spanish food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Travel"], "title": "Holiday guide to Burgos, Spain"},{"date": "2014-06-02T21:51:52Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The 10-year-old schoolboy who boarded a train from Lisbon to Madrid on 8 November, 1948, can have had no idea of the extraordinary life that awaited him in Spain. Juan Carlos spoke Spanish with a French accent, had never before been on Spanish soil and was to be, in effect, the ward of Francisco Franco, an arrangement arrived at after difficult negotiations between his liberal father and the dictator.It was by no means clear at that moment whether he would become king or just another of Spain's many royal also-rans, as there were several contenders who might have won Franco's favour in the years before Spain's transition to democracy. But he was to be an essential figure in that transition, and in maintaining Spain's stability and unity in the post-Franco era. Nobody who saw the crowds cheering the royal family at the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, where their attendance at any event seemed to be almost a guarantee that Spain would win, could doubt that Juan Carlos had captured the affections and the loyalty of most Spaniards. But in recent years his popularity declined because of the self-indulgent strain in his character.He had too many affairs. He plunged off to Africa to shoot elephants at a time when Spain was in severe recession, an outing that scored no points on either the political or the ecological fronts. His daughter and son-in-law were embroiled in a financial scandal. His role in quashing the 1981 coup, once seen as unambiguously positive, is now viewed by some in a rather different light.Although he still deserves great credit for ordering the generals back to barracks, he may have played a part in creating the conditions for a coup attempt by earlier manoeuvres to get rid of prime minister Adolfo Su\u00e1rez. Now, by his decision to abdicate, he has done a great deal to rescue a compromised reputation.Like Pope Benedict, he has recognised that age and infirmity may these days call for an earlier departure from these historically lifetime roles than death. And he has ceded his position to a young man who is both popular and experienced \u2013 he was at his father's side in 1981, for instance \u2013 and can offer a sort of new start for the monarchy.Spain has few out and out republicans and not many passionate royalists, so it might be said the crown is now neither here nor there. Yet it is part of the glue that holds a fragile nation together. The Basque country may be quiet, but Catalonia is heading toward an independence referendum this November, while the social divisions, widened by austerity, are producing a more volatile politics. The armed forces still take seriously, perhaps too seriously, a duty to preserve Spanish unity. There may be troubles ahead in which a respected monarch could play a useful part.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain: royal renewal | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Zaragoza lies in a desert valley beneath the foothills of the Pyrenees, 90 minutes north-east of Madrid and three hours west of Barcelona. So, it snoozes in the hot midday sun and gets animated in the cooler evenings. Though not on the tourist trail, it has its cultural moments \u2013 the 18th/19th-century painter Francisco Goya lived here, and there are numerous Goyas scattered around the city. The Bas\u00edlica del Pilar (pictured right) is a place of pilgimage for Spaniards, who come to plant a kiss on the pillar on which Mary is said to have appeared to James while he was preaching in 40 AD. In October, the city shakes off its desert stupor with a week-long party, the Fiestas del Pilar.Hotel Catalonia El Pilar (+ 34 976 205858, hoteles-catalonia.es) is considered a tourist attraction as well as a place to stay, as it's in a turn-of-the-century Modernista apartment block with floor-to-ceiling windows and wrought-iron balconies. There's an old open-frame lift and breakfast is served in the stone-walled former coal cellar. Rooms tend to be on the functional side of the design spectrum.The city has one Michelin-starred restaurant, La Bal d'Onsera , where Josechu Corella offers a menu featuring artichoke salad, poached egg with grilled onions and pumpkin, mushroom risotto, stewed beef with creamy mashed potato and russet sorbet, for a very reasonable \u20ac30 a head. The regional speciality, which you will find on most tapas menus, is migas: breadcrumbs fried in olive oil and served with all kinds of toppings. Museo de la Tortilla is a lunchtime-only cafe serving 23 types of omelette, including pig's ear and brain varieties.The El Tubo district is where Zaragoza goes to slake its desert thirst come nightfall. Recommended stops on the tapas crawl include Bodegas Almau, founded in 1870, and with an excellent wine selection. Almau won the city's best tapa competition in 2012 with its dulce de anchoa \u2013 bread, soft cheese, anchovy, tomato jam and grated chocolate.The Museo Ibercaja (10am-2pm and 5pm-9pm, free) is housed in a Renaissance palace, refurbished first as a bank and then as a museum, and has more than two dozen Goya etchings and 14 of his paintings, including a self-portrait. (In the Basilica del Pilar, you can crane your neck to take in famed Goya frescos on the ceiling above the choir.)\u2022 This article was amended on 27 May2014. An earlier version referred to Goya as a 17th century artist.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Spanish food and drink", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "A holiday guide to Zaragoza, Spain"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The awakening of this city and its surrounding province in south-eastern Spain follows the model of Bilbao, where government money and contemporary art also played a significant role. Murcia city is now a hot spot for top curators, and a dozen new galleries, museums and art spaces have popped up. It is also home to what many say are the best tapas bars (pictured) in Spain, a happy result of the city's prime spot between some of the country's richest arable land and the Mediterranean \u2014 seafood, tomatoes and pata negra ham being the jewels in the culinary crown.The arty crowd needs to start throwing a hissy fit here, because tastefully inspired places to stay are still conspicuous by their absence in the city. The least offensive bet for designer sensibilities is Arco de San Juan (+34 968 210455, arcosanjuan.com), a former 18th-century palace in the heart of the city.The tapas in Murcia are revered by Spanish chefs, and the pretty Plaza de las Flores in the historic centre is the best place to start a tapas crawl. El Bolito (Plaza Santa Catalina 1) serves great tortas de camarones (shrimp fritters), La Tapa (Plaza de Flores 12) does great plates of ham, and La Mejillonera (Plaza Cardenal Belluga, 7) offers mussels spiked with cumin and chilli. An hour west of the city in the hill town of Moratalla is El Olivar (+34 968 724054) one of the best restaurants in the region, run by chef Firo V\u00e1zquez.Take your pick of bars to enjoy a cold glass of Estrella Levante, the local lager, but Los Zagales (\"The Kids\", Calle Polo de Medina 4) is a great old-school bar, whose kitchen sends out succulent fried squid and quail's egg canapes to be enjoyed beneath fading photographs of football teams and bullfighters. Bar Warhol (Calle Victorio 25) is a lively spot (though you have to go late \u2013 and that means around 1am \u2013 as the locals do), popular with students, that often has live music nights and photography exhibitions.Beyond the grand cathedral, bishop's palace and ancient Roman ruins are a number of commerical art galleries that punch above their weight in provincial Spain. Espacio AV (manifesta8.com/espacio_av) is a \"white cube\" hosting contemporary art, photography and video shows. Galeria T20, on the other side of the old town, focuses on emerging artists.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Spanish food and drink", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Bars and clubs", "Travel"], "title": "Holiday guide to Murcia, Spain"},{"date": "2014-05-24T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The New York Times called Burgos \"an ancient city with a fresh face and culinary buzz\". It's a medieval city two-and-a-half hours north of Madrid, and its cathedral is one of Spain's jewels. The fresh face comes in the form of the Museum of Human Evolution (see below) and a first wave of boutique hotels. And the culinary buzz was generated by Burgos being gastronomic capital of Spain last year. Most of the 17 rooms in Hotel V\u00eda G\u00f3tica (hotelviagotica.com/en) have balcony views over the Arlanz\u00f3n river to the cathedral and the city gate. Inside, bold, modern decor, includes photographic murals over the beds and compact bathrooms in frosted-glass boxes in the rooms. The location is ideal for exploring the city.Burgos is famous for three specialities: blood sausage (morcilla), sheep's cheese (queso de Burgos) and Ribero del Duero wine. Classic cuisine is of the hearty variety \u2013 suckling pig, beef-and-potato soup \u2013 but young chefs have introduced a lighter note. Sa\u00fal G\u00f3mez offers a cosmopolitan menu at his Blue Gallery (Paseo Comuneros de Castilla 19, +34 947 057451) with dishes such as dashi soup, tataki duck and Singapore crab. And at T\u00e0bula Gastro & Bar  Patxi \u00c1lvarez and Elena P\u00e9rez serve stuffed pig's ears and tuna tartar. The Bodegas Portia , a 40-minute drive away in Gumiel de Iz\u00e1n, offers excellent Ribero del Duero wines in a Norman Foster-designed building. In town, Calle del Huerto del Rey, north-east of the cathedral, has dozens of bars, as does Calle La Puebla. La Buena Vida Urban Caf\u00e9 (Calle San Juan 39) is one of the most stylish hangouts, playing anything from jazz to electronic music to a young crowd, while Cervecer\u00eda El Morito (Calle Sombrerer\u00eda 27), between Plaza Mayor and the cathedral, is a local institution offering traditional tapas and raciones.Burgos has its 13th-century cathedral, Las Huelgas Reales monastery and Cartuja de Miraflores abbey, but the Museum of Human Evolution, designed by award-winning architect Juan Navarro Baldeweg, steals the glory. And 10 miles to the west, served by shuttle bus from the museum, is the Sierra de Atapuerca, a Unesco world heritage site and location of some of the most important human fossil finds.", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Food and drink", "Spanish food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Travel"], "title": "Holiday guide to Burgos, Spain"},{"date": "2014-04-29T12:59:02Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The message comes on a Sunday evening: \"My father has just passed away. Madrid Funeral Home from 10am tomorrow and burial in the Almudena cemetery at 5pm\". Death is dealt with quickly in Spain and if you want to pay your respects you have to move fast. Funerals and burials usually take place within 48 hours of the death. This tradition may have something to do with the heat in many parts of the country, which in the past made a rapid burial advisable.To an observer from the cold Protestant north, the way things are done here may seem too informal, too impersonal or even a bit disrespectful, but in practice this is not the case. One of the great strengths of the Spanish is their open expression of emotion.When you arrive at the funeral home you search for the name of the grieving family on an LED display screen to see which chapel you need to visit. The chapel is where you pay your respects to the immediate family and view the body or coffin. But for those who are not close family members, most of the visit takes place in the cafeteria.This is where everyone meets to while away the time before moving on to the burial. It is a time of exchanging family news and gossip, re-establishing contacts and exchanging family stories. Of sharing not only memories, but also a beer, a coffee or snack, too. This process of shared mourning, mixing sadness with happy memories, takes up most of the day before people head off in some disorder to the cemetery. Dress code is informal.You can drive right into the Almudena cemetery and park amongst the gravestones next to the neo-gothic church, where a fairly perfunctory religious service takes place. It only really becomes personal when the deceased's grandchildren read out a touching tribute to their grandfather.As the beautiful evening light dissipates, family and friends linger, chat, smoke and embrace before slowly leaving. It is a warm farewell to a much loved head of the family.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter\u00a0from column \u2013 they should focus\u00a0on\u00a0giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Spain: warm farewell"},{"date": "2014-08-12T13:00:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I am drinking ca\u00f1as \u2013 glasses of beer \u2013 at my friend Paco\u2019s holiday home in Mazag\u00f3n, on the Atlantic coast of Andaluc\u00eda. He is telling me about a childhood holiday that still lives in his heart.It was more than 50 years ago, when his father, a brigadier general, and the family were based in Seville. There were few roads then south of Seville; getting to the coast was an odyssey itself. \u201cFirst we drove in cars to the end of the tarmac road\u201d, Paco reminisces, \u201cthen we continued in vans with special tyres that could drive on sand. After this it was tractors and trailers. Finally, mules to cross the desert dunes of the Coto Do\u00f1ana.\u201dHoliday homes made of reeds awaited them on the empty beach at Matalasca\u00f1as. \u201cWe stayed there for three months\u201d, Paco tells me. \u201cFor a seven-year-old it was like heaven.\u201dAbove us the sky is as blue as an Andaluz tile. We look through a frieze of green stone pines at the white beach below. Groups of Sevillanos, down for the weekend, are fishing for bream with beach rods. Beyond is the darker blue of the Atlantic Ocean.It was just up the river at R\u00e1bida over 500 years before that a middle-aged Genoan weighed anchor in search of El Nuevo Mundo. A statue of Crist\u00f3bal Col\u00f3n (Christopher Columbus) towers above the tributary of the Rio Tinto to commemorate where his three caravels set sail into the unknown.The 500th anniversary of his discovery of the New World \u2013 the 1992 Seville Expo \u2013 transformed this stretch of the Andaluc\u00edan coast. Motorways and roads were constructed to connect Seville to its hinterlands; the coast was developed. Paco\u2019s paradise at Matalasca\u00f1as was transformed into a new town of ersatz villas and nouveau palacios.On a drive along the coast Paco points out a line of crumbling watchtowers, like something out of The Lord of the Rings, dotted at regular intervals along the littoral. For hundreds of years Andaluc\u00edans had to maintain a constant vigil against raids by Barbary pirates. When the distinctive galleys were sighted, fires were lit to warn the locals to flee inland.But geography, like history, has moved on. Today the watchtowers that once stood on the sandy cliffs of Mazag\u00f3n and Matalasca\u00f1as are lapped by the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions. Send them to: weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: changing coast"},{"date": "2014-08-12T13:00:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I am drinking ca\u00f1as \u2013 glasses of beer \u2013 at my friend Paco\u2019s holiday home in Mazag\u00f3n, on the Atlantic coast of Andaluc\u00eda. He is telling me about a childhood holiday that still lives in his heart.It was more than 50 years ago, when his father, a brigadier general, and the family were based in Seville. There were few roads then south of Seville; getting to the coast was an odyssey itself. \u201cFirst we drove in cars to the end of the tarmac road\u201d, Paco reminisces, \u201cthen we continued in vans with special tyres that could drive on sand. After this it was tractors and trailers. Finally, mules to cross the desert dunes of the Coto Do\u00f1ana.\u201dHoliday homes made of reeds awaited them on the empty beach at Matalasca\u00f1as. \u201cWe stayed there for three months\u201d, Paco tells me. \u201cFor a seven-year-old it was like heaven.\u201dAbove us the sky is as blue as an Andaluz tile. We look through a frieze of green stone pines at the white beach below. Groups of Sevillanos, down for the weekend, are fishing for bream with beach rods. Beyond is the darker blue of the Atlantic Ocean.It was just up the river at R\u00e1bida over 500 years before that a middle-aged Genoan weighed anchor in search of El Nuevo Mundo. A statue of Crist\u00f3bal Col\u00f3n (Christopher Columbus) towers above the tributary of the Rio Tinto to commemorate where his three caravels set sail into the unknown.The 500th anniversary of his discovery of the New World \u2013 the 1992 Seville Expo \u2013 transformed this stretch of the Andaluc\u00edan coast. Motorways and roads were constructed to connect Seville to its hinterlands; the coast was developed. Paco\u2019s paradise at Matalasca\u00f1as was transformed into a new town of ersatz villas and nouveau palacios.On a drive along the coast Paco points out a line of crumbling watchtowers, like something out of The Lord of the Rings, dotted at regular intervals along the littoral. For hundreds of years Andaluc\u00edans had to maintain a constant vigil against raids by Barbary pirates. When the distinctive galleys were sighted, fires were lit to warn the locals to flee inland.But geography, like history, has moved on. Today the watchtowers that once stood on the sandy cliffs of Mazag\u00f3n and Matalasca\u00f1as are lapped by the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions. Send them to: weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: changing coast"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:31:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Railway authorities in Catalonia are investigating after a herd of 17 goats made their way into a train station and onto the railway tracks in the city of Terrassa, on Tuesday morning.Surprised people snapped photos and posted videos online as they watched the goats delicately pick their way along the tracks.The goats were \"completely disoriented and frightened,\" security guard Antonio Jes\u00fas Mart\u00ednez told El Pa\u00eds. Using a whistle and his voice, he spent 40 minutes guiding the goats towards an unused track in the station. \"It was like I had been herding goats all my life,\" he joked.The goats were first spotted in a tunnel just before the station, said Jordi Carrera of Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalonia (Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia). \"Now we're trying to figure out exactly where they would have entered from.\"Station staff have seen the occasional cow wander onto their outdoor tracks, he said, from a nearby farm. \"But never anything like this.\"He stressed that train service was not interrupted. The goats were kept in the unused track while staff waited for police to locate the goatherd. He arrived, visibly nervous, about an hour after his goats and worked with staff to come up with a plan on how best to get the animals out of the station. \"We took them out one by one,\" said Carrera.The last goats were led from the train platform, up the station steps and out the exit after nightfall when train services were less frequent. \"Some of them ended up spending eight or nine hours in the station,\" said Carrera, adding: \"But they were well looked after.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Animals"], "title": "Runaway goats invade train station in Spain"},{"date": "2014-08-12T13:00:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I am drinking ca\u00f1as \u2013 glasses of beer \u2013 at my friend Paco\u2019s holiday home in Mazag\u00f3n, on the Atlantic coast of Andaluc\u00eda. He is telling me about a childhood holiday that still lives in his heart.It was more than 50 years ago, when his father, a brigadier general, and the family were based in Seville. There were few roads then south of Seville; getting to the coast was an odyssey itself. \u201cFirst we drove in cars to the end of the tarmac road\u201d, Paco reminisces, \u201cthen we continued in vans with special tyres that could drive on sand. After this it was tractors and trailers. Finally, mules to cross the desert dunes of the Coto Do\u00f1ana.\u201dHoliday homes made of reeds awaited them on the empty beach at Matalasca\u00f1as. \u201cWe stayed there for three months\u201d, Paco tells me. \u201cFor a seven-year-old it was like heaven.\u201dAbove us the sky is as blue as an Andaluz tile. We look through a frieze of green stone pines at the white beach below. Groups of Sevillanos, down for the weekend, are fishing for bream with beach rods. Beyond is the darker blue of the Atlantic Ocean.It was just up the river at R\u00e1bida over 500 years before that a middle-aged Genoan weighed anchor in search of El Nuevo Mundo. A statue of Crist\u00f3bal Col\u00f3n (Christopher Columbus) towers above the tributary of the Rio Tinto to commemorate where his three caravels set sail into the unknown.The 500th anniversary of his discovery of the New World \u2013 the 1992 Seville Expo \u2013 transformed this stretch of the Andaluc\u00edan coast. Motorways and roads were constructed to connect Seville to its hinterlands; the coast was developed. Paco\u2019s paradise at Matalasca\u00f1as was transformed into a new town of ersatz villas and nouveau palacios.On a drive along the coast Paco points out a line of crumbling watchtowers, like something out of The Lord of the Rings, dotted at regular intervals along the littoral. For hundreds of years Andaluc\u00edans had to maintain a constant vigil against raids by Barbary pirates. When the distinctive galleys were sighted, fires were lit to warn the locals to flee inland.But geography, like history, has moved on. Today the watchtowers that once stood on the sandy cliffs of Mazag\u00f3n and Matalasca\u00f1as are lapped by the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions. Send them to: weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: changing coast"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:31:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Railway authorities in Catalonia are investigating after a herd of 17 goats made their way into a train station and onto the railway tracks in the city of Terrassa, on Tuesday morning.Surprised people snapped photos and posted videos online as they watched the goats delicately pick their way along the tracks.The goats were \"completely disoriented and frightened,\" security guard Antonio Jes\u00fas Mart\u00ednez told El Pa\u00eds. Using a whistle and his voice, he spent 40 minutes guiding the goats towards an unused track in the station. \"It was like I had been herding goats all my life,\" he joked.The goats were first spotted in a tunnel just before the station, said Jordi Carrera of Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalonia (Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia). \"Now we're trying to figure out exactly where they would have entered from.\"Station staff have seen the occasional cow wander onto their outdoor tracks, he said, from a nearby farm. \"But never anything like this.\"He stressed that train service was not interrupted. The goats were kept in the unused track while staff waited for police to locate the goatherd. He arrived, visibly nervous, about an hour after his goats and worked with staff to come up with a plan on how best to get the animals out of the station. \"We took them out one by one,\" said Carrera.The last goats were led from the train platform, up the station steps and out the exit after nightfall when train services were less frequent. \"Some of them ended up spending eight or nine hours in the station,\" said Carrera, adding: \"But they were well looked after.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Animals"], "title": "Runaway goats invade train station in Spain"},{"date": "2014-09-25T09:13:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It\u2019s a tradition that plays out each year in towns and cities across Spain: The gates open, cowbells clang and thrillseekers ready themselves to run. But these days in Mataelpino, a small village 40 miles from Madrid, what\u2019s likely to come out of the gates isn\u2019t a half-tonne bull, but rather a 100kg polystyrene ball.Four years ago the village began swapping bulls for balls in its annual fiesta, pitting daredevils against a giant ball \u2013 three metres in diameter \u2013 as it gains steam heading downhill towards the village bullring.The campaign group the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta) now wants to help other municipalities across Spain and Portugal make the same kind of change by offering to provide similar balls to any interested mayor.The running of the balls has earned Mataelpino media coverage across Spain, said Mimi Bekhechi of Peta, and even boosted the number of tourists visiting the village. \u201cIt\u2019s obviously financially profitable for towns to do this.\u201dBut while Peta promotes the ball run as an animal-friendly alternative, the switch was motivated by the economic crisis, said Mataelpino resident Russel Sanguino. Worried about how to fund the village\u2019s annual fiesta during a time of cost-cutting, a group of residents started batting around alternatives one night in the bar. \u201cWe started thinking, why not have a giant ball?\u201dIt\u2019s been a huge success, he said, and has even been expanded to include a children\u2019s run with smaller balls. \u201cNext year we\u2019re thinking of adding ramps,\u201d he said.The village\u2019s financial woes have also been eased by the switch, as authorities are in talks with various companies interested in sponsoring the run in exchange for putting their logo on the ball.Sanguino cautioned any daredevil who would write off the challenge posed by the ball. \u201cIt\u2019s a strong wallop,\u201d he said, noting that a few runners ended up in the hospital last year. \u201cThe ball is meant to mimic a bull.\u201dBut for all the success of the ball run, the village has yet to completely do away with bull runs, said deputy mayor Jos\u00e9 \u00c1ngel Guerrero. \u201cSadly we continue to do runs with bulls,\u201d he said, adding, \u201cbut there are far fewer than before.\u201dEchoing a divide that plays out across the country, the Mataelpino has an \u201congoing dispute between those who want to have bull runs and bullfights and those who want the traditions to disappear for good.\u201dThe town has so far sought to address the tension by holding both bull runs and ball runs, he said, noting \u201cthere are still residents who demand that we do things the traditional way\u201d.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Animal welfare", "Animals", "Peta"], "title": "Spain urged to swap bull run for ball run"},{"date": "2014-08-12T13:00:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I am drinking ca\u00f1as \u2013 glasses of beer \u2013 at my friend Paco\u2019s holiday home in Mazag\u00f3n, on the Atlantic coast of Andaluc\u00eda. He is telling me about a childhood holiday that still lives in his heart.It was more than 50 years ago, when his father, a brigadier general, and the family were based in Seville. There were few roads then south of Seville; getting to the coast was an odyssey itself. \u201cFirst we drove in cars to the end of the tarmac road\u201d, Paco reminisces, \u201cthen we continued in vans with special tyres that could drive on sand. After this it was tractors and trailers. Finally, mules to cross the desert dunes of the Coto Do\u00f1ana.\u201dHoliday homes made of reeds awaited them on the empty beach at Matalasca\u00f1as. \u201cWe stayed there for three months\u201d, Paco tells me. \u201cFor a seven-year-old it was like heaven.\u201dAbove us the sky is as blue as an Andaluz tile. We look through a frieze of green stone pines at the white beach below. Groups of Sevillanos, down for the weekend, are fishing for bream with beach rods. Beyond is the darker blue of the Atlantic Ocean.It was just up the river at R\u00e1bida over 500 years before that a middle-aged Genoan weighed anchor in search of El Nuevo Mundo. A statue of Crist\u00f3bal Col\u00f3n (Christopher Columbus) towers above the tributary of the Rio Tinto to commemorate where his three caravels set sail into the unknown.The 500th anniversary of his discovery of the New World \u2013 the 1992 Seville Expo \u2013 transformed this stretch of the Andaluc\u00edan coast. Motorways and roads were constructed to connect Seville to its hinterlands; the coast was developed. Paco\u2019s paradise at Matalasca\u00f1as was transformed into a new town of ersatz villas and nouveau palacios.On a drive along the coast Paco points out a line of crumbling watchtowers, like something out of The Lord of the Rings, dotted at regular intervals along the littoral. For hundreds of years Andaluc\u00edans had to maintain a constant vigil against raids by Barbary pirates. When the distinctive galleys were sighted, fires were lit to warn the locals to flee inland.But geography, like history, has moved on. Today the watchtowers that once stood on the sandy cliffs of Mazag\u00f3n and Matalasca\u00f1as are lapped by the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions. Send them to: weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: changing coast"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:31:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Railway authorities in Catalonia are investigating after a herd of 17 goats made their way into a train station and onto the railway tracks in the city of Terrassa, on Tuesday morning.Surprised people snapped photos and posted videos online as they watched the goats delicately pick their way along the tracks.The goats were \"completely disoriented and frightened,\" security guard Antonio Jes\u00fas Mart\u00ednez told El Pa\u00eds. Using a whistle and his voice, he spent 40 minutes guiding the goats towards an unused track in the station. \"It was like I had been herding goats all my life,\" he joked.The goats were first spotted in a tunnel just before the station, said Jordi Carrera of Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalonia (Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia). \"Now we're trying to figure out exactly where they would have entered from.\"Station staff have seen the occasional cow wander onto their outdoor tracks, he said, from a nearby farm. \"But never anything like this.\"He stressed that train service was not interrupted. The goats were kept in the unused track while staff waited for police to locate the goatherd. He arrived, visibly nervous, about an hour after his goats and worked with staff to come up with a plan on how best to get the animals out of the station. \"We took them out one by one,\" said Carrera.The last goats were led from the train platform, up the station steps and out the exit after nightfall when train services were less frequent. \"Some of them ended up spending eight or nine hours in the station,\" said Carrera, adding: \"But they were well looked after.\"", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Animals"], "title": "Runaway goats invade train station in Spain"},{"date": "2014-09-25T09:13:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It\u2019s a tradition that plays out each year in towns and cities across Spain: The gates open, cowbells clang and thrillseekers ready themselves to run. But these days in Mataelpino, a small village 40 miles from Madrid, what\u2019s likely to come out of the gates isn\u2019t a half-tonne bull, but rather a 100kg polystyrene ball.Four years ago the village began swapping bulls for balls in its annual fiesta, pitting daredevils against a giant ball \u2013 three metres in diameter \u2013 as it gains steam heading downhill towards the village bullring.The campaign group the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta) now wants to help other municipalities across Spain and Portugal make the same kind of change by offering to provide similar balls to any interested mayor.The running of the balls has earned Mataelpino media coverage across Spain, said Mimi Bekhechi of Peta, and even boosted the number of tourists visiting the village. \u201cIt\u2019s obviously financially profitable for towns to do this.\u201dBut while Peta promotes the ball run as an animal-friendly alternative, the switch was motivated by the economic crisis, said Mataelpino resident Russel Sanguino. Worried about how to fund the village\u2019s annual fiesta during a time of cost-cutting, a group of residents started batting around alternatives one night in the bar. \u201cWe started thinking, why not have a giant ball?\u201dIt\u2019s been a huge success, he said, and has even been expanded to include a children\u2019s run with smaller balls. \u201cNext year we\u2019re thinking of adding ramps,\u201d he said.The village\u2019s financial woes have also been eased by the switch, as authorities are in talks with various companies interested in sponsoring the run in exchange for putting their logo on the ball.Sanguino cautioned any daredevil who would write off the challenge posed by the ball. \u201cIt\u2019s a strong wallop,\u201d he said, noting that a few runners ended up in the hospital last year. \u201cThe ball is meant to mimic a bull.\u201dBut for all the success of the ball run, the village has yet to completely do away with bull runs, said deputy mayor Jos\u00e9 \u00c1ngel Guerrero. \u201cSadly we continue to do runs with bulls,\u201d he said, adding, \u201cbut there are far fewer than before.\u201dEchoing a divide that plays out across the country, the Mataelpino has an \u201congoing dispute between those who want to have bull runs and bullfights and those who want the traditions to disappear for good.\u201dThe town has so far sought to address the tension by holding both bull runs and ball runs, he said, noting \u201cthere are still residents who demand that we do things the traditional way\u201d.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Animal welfare", "Animals", "Peta"], "title": "Spain urged to swap bull run for ball run"},{"date": "2014-09-23T17:16:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government has abandoned its plans to tighten the country\u2019s liberal abortion laws, ending months of speculation and prompting the resignation of the justice minister charged with enacting some of the toughest legislation on the issue in Europe.\u201cAs president of the government I have taken the most sensible decision,\u201d the country\u2019s prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, told reporters at a conference in Madrid, saying that his government had failed to reach consensus on the issue. \u201cWe can\u2019t have a law that will be changed when another government comes in.\u201dThe changes would have made Spain one of the toughest countries in Europe in which to get an abortion.Rajoy said his government would instead seek to reform the law introduced in 2010, so that 16- and 17-year-olds would need their parent\u2019s permission to have an abortion. The reform would be introduced by the end of the year, he said.Hours after Rajoy\u2019s remarks, the justice minister, Alberto Ruiz-Gallard\u00f3n, announced his resignation, saying that he had been unable to turn the government\u2019s plan into law.Last December, the conservative People\u2019s party (PP) announced plans to tighten the country\u2019s liberal laws by making abortion illegal except in the case of rape or when there was risk to the mother\u2019s physical and mental health. Women wanting an abortion would have needed two doctors to verify those conditions.Tens of thousands rallied against the changes, taking to streets across the country to protest against what they called a step backwards. Polls showed that between 70% and 80% of the population was opposed to the idea.On Tuesday some people who voted for the PP expressed their disappointment with the government\u2019s refusal to push through the changes and vowed to withhold their votes from the party. Pointing to the thousands who rallied on Sunday in Madrid in support of stricter abortion laws, Right to Life\u2019s spokeswoman, G\u00e1dor Joya, accused Rajoy of \u201cspitting in their face\u201d.\u201cWe\u2019re announcing that there will be many more protests in the street. If Rajoy wanted to silence Spaniards with this announcement, he is mistaken because this will have the contrary effect.\u201dMany others celebrated the news. \u201cThis is good news for Spanish society and women,\u201d said Isabel Serrano, a spokeswoman for Decidir Nos Hace Libres, a platform made up of hundreds of groups across the country opposed to the tightening of abortion laws. \u201cThe law was out of touch with reality and the will of Spaniards, as well as with the European context in which we live.\u201dThe Rajoy government, she said, should pay a political price for casting women\u2019s rights as a tool to be used for political purposes. \u201cThey\u2019ve done a lot of damage. Spain was often seen as similar to other progressive countries in Europe and now we\u2019ve lost that image,\u201d she said. \u201cSomeone should pay for that.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Abortion", "Health", "Women"], "title": "Spain abandons plan to introduce tough new abortion laws"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-15T19:35:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The year he turned 40, Fernando Mora lost the only job he had ever had. It was 2009 and the financial crisis had wiped out the carpentry job he had held since he was 18. As Spain entered its deepest recession in half a century, his wife lost her job in senior care a short time later, while their daughters, both in their 20s, struggled to find jobs.By 2013, everyone in the family had exhausted their government unemployment benefits. \u201cWe\u2019re without any benefits or compensation, nothing at all,\u201d Mora explained in the short documentary No Job Land. \u201cI owe money to everyone.\u201dIn a country where one in four people are unemployed, Mora\u2019s story stood out. His family had become one of the more than 700,000 households in Spain with no stable source of income.On Monday the government paved the way towards tackling the issue. Starting in mid-January, a new benefit of up to \u20ac426 (\u00a3338) a month will be made available to unemployed families who have exhausted all other forms of income. The benefit can be claimed for six months.The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, said that in many respects the crisis was over. \u201cBut its sequels aren\u2019t over yet,\u201d he said. \u201cThe economic recovery won\u2019t be complete until it reaches every household, every Spaniard who is without a job, and until it is felt in the pockets of every single Spaniard.\u201d About 450,000 people are expected to qualify for the new benefit.In order to be eligible, claimants must have been unemployed for more than a year, have dependents, and must have exhausted all other possible benefits. Recipients must agree to work with public officials to design a personalised job plan to help them find work.While the International Monetary Fund has said it expects the unemployment rate in Spain to remain above 20% for at least another four years, Rajoy\u2019s People\u2019s party government is relying on the country\u2019s economic growth to create jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s not the same to talk about an economy that\u2019s contracting as one that\u2019s expected to grow by 2% in the next year,\u201d Rajoy said.Spain\u2019s labour unions, who negotiated the benefit with the government, noted that only 64% of Spain\u2019s unemployed were currently eligible for any kind of government aid. \u201cTo come out of the crisis we need to recoup the standard of living we had before, and for this to happen we still have a long way to go,\u201d said Ignacio Fern\u00e1ndez Toxo, of the Workers\u2019 Commissions union. Toxo called on the government to do more to help the more than three million Spaniards living in extreme poverty, suggesting the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed and a rise in the minimum wage.\u00c1lvaro Anchuelo, of the centrist Union, Progress and Democracy party, called the benefit a step in the right direction but said it was \u201ctoo short a step. It\u2019s far too little to meet the social necessities of the country.\u201dSpain is gearing up for municipal, regional and potentially general elections in 2015. On Monday, Spanish media pointed to the rising popularity of the leftwing Podemos and the easing of austerity measures to explain the government\u2019s increasing interest in social issues.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain offers new benefit for long-term unemployed"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-15T19:35:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The year he turned 40, Fernando Mora lost the only job he had ever had. It was 2009 and the financial crisis had wiped out the carpentry job he had held since he was 18. As Spain entered its deepest recession in half a century, his wife lost her job in senior care a short time later, while their daughters, both in their 20s, struggled to find jobs.By 2013, everyone in the family had exhausted their government unemployment benefits. \u201cWe\u2019re without any benefits or compensation, nothing at all,\u201d Mora explained in the short documentary No Job Land. \u201cI owe money to everyone.\u201dIn a country where one in four people are unemployed, Mora\u2019s story stood out. His family had become one of the more than 700,000 households in Spain with no stable source of income.On Monday the government paved the way towards tackling the issue. Starting in mid-January, a new benefit of up to \u20ac426 (\u00a3338) a month will be made available to unemployed families who have exhausted all other forms of income. The benefit can be claimed for six months.The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, said that in many respects the crisis was over. \u201cBut its sequels aren\u2019t over yet,\u201d he said. \u201cThe economic recovery won\u2019t be complete until it reaches every household, every Spaniard who is without a job, and until it is felt in the pockets of every single Spaniard.\u201d About 450,000 people are expected to qualify for the new benefit.In order to be eligible, claimants must have been unemployed for more than a year, have dependents, and must have exhausted all other possible benefits. Recipients must agree to work with public officials to design a personalised job plan to help them find work.While the International Monetary Fund has said it expects the unemployment rate in Spain to remain above 20% for at least another four years, Rajoy\u2019s People\u2019s party government is relying on the country\u2019s economic growth to create jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s not the same to talk about an economy that\u2019s contracting as one that\u2019s expected to grow by 2% in the next year,\u201d Rajoy said.Spain\u2019s labour unions, who negotiated the benefit with the government, noted that only 64% of Spain\u2019s unemployed were currently eligible for any kind of government aid. \u201cTo come out of the crisis we need to recoup the standard of living we had before, and for this to happen we still have a long way to go,\u201d said Ignacio Fern\u00e1ndez Toxo, of the Workers\u2019 Commissions union. Toxo called on the government to do more to help the more than three million Spaniards living in extreme poverty, suggesting the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed and a rise in the minimum wage.\u00c1lvaro Anchuelo, of the centrist Union, Progress and Democracy party, called the benefit a step in the right direction but said it was \u201ctoo short a step. It\u2019s far too little to meet the social necessities of the country.\u201dSpain is gearing up for municipal, regional and potentially general elections in 2015. On Monday, Spanish media pointed to the rising popularity of the leftwing Podemos and the easing of austerity measures to explain the government\u2019s increasing interest in social issues.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain offers new benefit for long-term unemployed"},{"date": "2014-12-09T19:02:28Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Uber has been banned in Spain and Thailand, adding to a week of woes for the US-based taxi service that has also seen bans in India and the Netherlands and a lawsuit from the city authorities in Portland, Oregon.In Spain a judge upheld a claim by the Madrid Taxi Association that Uber\u2019s drivers were not authorised to provide the service, which amounted to unfair competition. In his ruling the judge said that by not adhering to the norms governing the taxi service market Uber drivers were competing unfairly with licensed cabs.In Thailand the government said Uber drivers were neither registered nor insured to drive commercial vehicles. It added that its credit card system didn\u2019t comply with regulations. Meanwhile the City of Portland moved on Monday to shut down the service only days after it launched there.The latest troubles for the US tech company come after the Indian government stopped web-based, unregistered taxi companies from operating after a female passenger claimed that she was raped by an Uber driver in New Delhi.The driver, who has confessed, allegedly already faced rape charges but had a forged character reference signed by a police officer.This week a Dutch court banned the cheaper UberPop service, warning drivers they could face fines of \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,000) if they violate the ban. The premium UberBlack and UberLux services remain in operation in Amsterdam. Uber said it would fight the ban.The Spanish service began in Barcelona where the regional government has said it will ban it from 2015, threatening drivers with \u20ac6,000 fines. That has now been overridden by the judge\u2019s ruling which will also cover Valencia, the other Spanish city where Uber operates.\u201cWe believe we are offering a service within the spirit of the law. We will continue to offer safe, competitive, quality services to consumers,\u201d Uber spokesman Thomas van Oortmerssen said.\u201cThe law is out of date and that means the technological service we offer had not yet been invented,\u201d he added. \u201cThe law needs to be changed to make it possible and it is now up to the politicians to do that.\u201dThe San Francisco-based service has faced opposition almost everywhere it has set up shop but has taken an aggressive stance against a sector that is almost universally heavily regulated and deeply protectionist.It is operating in 200 cities and 51 countries. Sensing public support in cities such as London, where the famous black taxis charge exorbitant rates, the company has been willing to wage legal battles in exchange for the publicity it gives them.In spite of this bumpy ride, investors have been throwing money at the company which has raised $2.9bn since it was established in 2009.Only last week it was valued at $40bn in a $1.2bn fundraising, making it on paper worth four times the room-sharing app Airbnb and not far behind General Motors valued at $53bn.The heady valuation comes barely six months since it was thought to be worth $18bn \u2013 a figure derided by some market observers at the time as absurd.", "tags": ["Uber", "Thailand", "Spain", "Technology", "Europe", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Uber taxis pick up driving bans in Spain and Thailand"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-15T19:35:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The year he turned 40, Fernando Mora lost the only job he had ever had. It was 2009 and the financial crisis had wiped out the carpentry job he had held since he was 18. As Spain entered its deepest recession in half a century, his wife lost her job in senior care a short time later, while their daughters, both in their 20s, struggled to find jobs.By 2013, everyone in the family had exhausted their government unemployment benefits. \u201cWe\u2019re without any benefits or compensation, nothing at all,\u201d Mora explained in the short documentary No Job Land. \u201cI owe money to everyone.\u201dIn a country where one in four people are unemployed, Mora\u2019s story stood out. His family had become one of the more than 700,000 households in Spain with no stable source of income.On Monday the government paved the way towards tackling the issue. Starting in mid-January, a new benefit of up to \u20ac426 (\u00a3338) a month will be made available to unemployed families who have exhausted all other forms of income. The benefit can be claimed for six months.The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, said that in many respects the crisis was over. \u201cBut its sequels aren\u2019t over yet,\u201d he said. \u201cThe economic recovery won\u2019t be complete until it reaches every household, every Spaniard who is without a job, and until it is felt in the pockets of every single Spaniard.\u201d About 450,000 people are expected to qualify for the new benefit.In order to be eligible, claimants must have been unemployed for more than a year, have dependents, and must have exhausted all other possible benefits. Recipients must agree to work with public officials to design a personalised job plan to help them find work.While the International Monetary Fund has said it expects the unemployment rate in Spain to remain above 20% for at least another four years, Rajoy\u2019s People\u2019s party government is relying on the country\u2019s economic growth to create jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s not the same to talk about an economy that\u2019s contracting as one that\u2019s expected to grow by 2% in the next year,\u201d Rajoy said.Spain\u2019s labour unions, who negotiated the benefit with the government, noted that only 64% of Spain\u2019s unemployed were currently eligible for any kind of government aid. \u201cTo come out of the crisis we need to recoup the standard of living we had before, and for this to happen we still have a long way to go,\u201d said Ignacio Fern\u00e1ndez Toxo, of the Workers\u2019 Commissions union. Toxo called on the government to do more to help the more than three million Spaniards living in extreme poverty, suggesting the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed and a rise in the minimum wage.\u00c1lvaro Anchuelo, of the centrist Union, Progress and Democracy party, called the benefit a step in the right direction but said it was \u201ctoo short a step. It\u2019s far too little to meet the social necessities of the country.\u201dSpain is gearing up for municipal, regional and potentially general elections in 2015. On Monday, Spanish media pointed to the rising popularity of the leftwing Podemos and the easing of austerity measures to explain the government\u2019s increasing interest in social issues.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain offers new benefit for long-term unemployed"},{"date": "2014-12-09T19:02:28Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Uber has been banned in Spain and Thailand, adding to a week of woes for the US-based taxi service that has also seen bans in India and the Netherlands and a lawsuit from the city authorities in Portland, Oregon.In Spain a judge upheld a claim by the Madrid Taxi Association that Uber\u2019s drivers were not authorised to provide the service, which amounted to unfair competition. In his ruling the judge said that by not adhering to the norms governing the taxi service market Uber drivers were competing unfairly with licensed cabs.In Thailand the government said Uber drivers were neither registered nor insured to drive commercial vehicles. It added that its credit card system didn\u2019t comply with regulations. Meanwhile the City of Portland moved on Monday to shut down the service only days after it launched there.The latest troubles for the US tech company come after the Indian government stopped web-based, unregistered taxi companies from operating after a female passenger claimed that she was raped by an Uber driver in New Delhi.The driver, who has confessed, allegedly already faced rape charges but had a forged character reference signed by a police officer.This week a Dutch court banned the cheaper UberPop service, warning drivers they could face fines of \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,000) if they violate the ban. The premium UberBlack and UberLux services remain in operation in Amsterdam. Uber said it would fight the ban.The Spanish service began in Barcelona where the regional government has said it will ban it from 2015, threatening drivers with \u20ac6,000 fines. That has now been overridden by the judge\u2019s ruling which will also cover Valencia, the other Spanish city where Uber operates.\u201cWe believe we are offering a service within the spirit of the law. We will continue to offer safe, competitive, quality services to consumers,\u201d Uber spokesman Thomas van Oortmerssen said.\u201cThe law is out of date and that means the technological service we offer had not yet been invented,\u201d he added. \u201cThe law needs to be changed to make it possible and it is now up to the politicians to do that.\u201dThe San Francisco-based service has faced opposition almost everywhere it has set up shop but has taken an aggressive stance against a sector that is almost universally heavily regulated and deeply protectionist.It is operating in 200 cities and 51 countries. Sensing public support in cities such as London, where the famous black taxis charge exorbitant rates, the company has been willing to wage legal battles in exchange for the publicity it gives them.In spite of this bumpy ride, investors have been throwing money at the company which has raised $2.9bn since it was established in 2009.Only last week it was valued at $40bn in a $1.2bn fundraising, making it on paper worth four times the room-sharing app Airbnb and not far behind General Motors valued at $53bn.The heady valuation comes barely six months since it was thought to be worth $18bn \u2013 a figure derided by some market observers at the time as absurd.", "tags": ["Uber", "Thailand", "Spain", "Technology", "Europe", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Uber taxis pick up driving bans in Spain and Thailand"},{"date": "2014-11-26T13:30:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Is citizenship about love? Money? Or both?The topic has become a difficult one in the wake of President Obama\u2019s announcement last week that he will take executive action to change the US immigration system, protecting illegal immigrants with children born in the United States from deportation. Many of their parents may come to the US for its economic opportunities but for their children, born here, it is home. The just announced policy recognizes that this new generation have a different relationship to the country.Now, at least one nation that forcibly expelled part of its own population is preparing to welcome back their descendants \u2013 more than 500 years later. But the plan raises the question as to whether the policy has more to do with love \u2013 or the struggling country\u2019s search for investment. For Alberto Ruiz-Gallardon, Spain\u2019s minister of justice, it\u2019s about rectifying one of the country\u2019s \u201cmost important historic errors\u201d. In 1492, the same month that they gave Christopher Columbus his mission to set off across the Atlantic, Spain\u2019s joint monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, ordered all their Jewish citizens to either convert to Christianity or leave the country within four months. Now the Spanish government plans to offer citizenship to any and all descendants of Jews who didn\u2019t convert. The plan, which has spent most of 2014 working its way through the Spanish legislative system, could be in force by early 2015, clearing the way for thousands \u2013 even millions \u2013 of Sephardic Jews to apply for Spanish citizenship, should they choose.But will they?It\u2019s one thing to bring tourist income to Spain for a week or so, but encouraging Sephardic Jews to think about developing permanent ties to a country their ancestors were forced to abandon half a millennium ago? At a time that country is struggling economically, with an unemployment rate that still hovers at 23.5%?Odds are that those who qualify for Spanish citizenship \u2013 who are able to put together an application and prove their lines of descent or ties to the Sephardic community \u2013 will be those with resources and who are resourceful; who are entrepreneurial and willing to break new ground. As Ilan Stavans noted in a new York Times editorial, Argentina and Mexico sought out Jewish immigrants as a way to help boost their economies in the 19th centuries; Egypt\u2019s 19th century rulers encouraged Dutch Jews to help develop that country\u2019s economy after the building of the Suez canal.So how much of Spain\u2019s actions are motivated by economic opportunism \u2013 and how much a genuine interest in making amends half a millennium later?Spain\u2019s justice minister has said the new law doesn\u2019t have \u201cany economic goals or consequences\u201d. Clearly some Americans, like Josh Nathan-Kazis, who wrote a thoughtful longform essay for the Forward, find few compelling economic reasons to abandon their birth country, and few attractions in Spain.Many of Spain\u2019s Jews \u2013 a diaspora variously estimated at between 200,000 and 500,000 \u2013 found a home in the Ottoman empire, whose sultan couldn\u2019t understand just what the Spanish monarchs had done. \u201cHow can you can you call Ferdinand of Aragon a wise king,\u201d he often wondered, \u201cthe same Ferdinand who impoverished his own land and enriched ours?\u201dSpain has been waking up to the economic potential of the Sephardic diaspora for some years, however. The first stage in the process, says Ronnie Perelis, the Alcalay Assistant Professor of Sephardic Studies at Yeshiva University, was connected with Spain\u2019s economic decline following the loss of the last of its imperial possessions in 1898. The economic crisis \u2013 and the identity crisis \u2013 that followed, prompted many to revisit Spain\u2019s glory days, including the history of the era of covivencia, a period when Christians, Jews and Muslims coexisted. That led to outreach to the Sephardic diaspora \u2013 even during the second world war, Perelis says, when Spanish ambassadors in parts of eastern Europe rescued Jews by claiming they were Sephardic and thus entitled to Spanish citizenship.The Franco regime revoked the Alhambra Decree of 1492 in 1968. In 1992, King Juan Carlos prayed in a Madrid synagogue, a gesture that probably sent his ancestors, Ferdinand and Isabella, spinning in their ornate tombs in Seville.More recently, Spanish cities have made a big push to attract Sephardic Jewish tourists interested in revisiting their past. Avila, better known for its hometown saint, Teresa, invested some $335,000 to build a memorial garden to mark the site of an ancient Jewish cemetery behind an old monastery, in spite of the country\u2019s economic problems. Avila is one of almost two dozen cities that now have joined to form a Network of Jewish Quarters, promoting their ties to their Jewish history and attract tourist revenue. Sephardic history is suddenly one of a handful of boom areas for Spain. \u201cYou can go to little Spanish towns and they will have whole Sephardic history tours,\u201d Perelis says, adding wryly: \u201cIncluding Jewish-themed restaurants decorated with legs of smoked ham.\u201dMaybe I\u2019m unduly cynical. But, given that it has now been more than a century since Spain began re-evaluating its relationship with the descendants of its long-ago citizens, is it altogether a coincidence that this initiative occurs just when Spain could most benefit from immigrants who might have investment capital to deploy?But the Sephardic community includes affluent communities in other nations, many of whom may be interested in acquiring Spanish citizenship. There are \u201cWestern-educated people living in Turkey, where it is becoming more difficult to be Jewish, or Venezuela, where you have a lot of Sephardic Jews\u201d, some of whom came from Spanish enclaves in North Africa,\u201d he says. \u201cVenezuela isn\u2019t a great place to be upper middle class these days.\u201dThe new law will probably be a windfall for at least one group: the genealogists who specialize in Sephardic Jewish family trees. It may be up to them to help winnow through the candidates, and the documentation, to determine who is and who isn\u2019t of Sephardic ancestry. That may be tough, Perelis notes. \u201cSephardic\u201d came to refer to a cultural and religious context, as much as it did a place of origin. Then, too, in places like Syria, exiles and local Jewish communities would worship together. \u201cWho is Sephardic, anyway? How will they figure it out?\u201d But some Sephardim are already thinking past those big questions, and wondering about the potential for some new culinary initiatives in Madrid. What about latkes with bravas sauce? Or even a bagel bocadillo de calamares? ", "tags": ["US personal finance", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "Economic policy"], "title": "Economic boost? Sephardic Jews contemplate a return to Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-15T19:35:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The year he turned 40, Fernando Mora lost the only job he had ever had. It was 2009 and the financial crisis had wiped out the carpentry job he had held since he was 18. As Spain entered its deepest recession in half a century, his wife lost her job in senior care a short time later, while their daughters, both in their 20s, struggled to find jobs.By 2013, everyone in the family had exhausted their government unemployment benefits. \u201cWe\u2019re without any benefits or compensation, nothing at all,\u201d Mora explained in the short documentary No Job Land. \u201cI owe money to everyone.\u201dIn a country where one in four people are unemployed, Mora\u2019s story stood out. His family had become one of the more than 700,000 households in Spain with no stable source of income.On Monday the government paved the way towards tackling the issue. Starting in mid-January, a new benefit of up to \u20ac426 (\u00a3338) a month will be made available to unemployed families who have exhausted all other forms of income. The benefit can be claimed for six months.The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, said that in many respects the crisis was over. \u201cBut its sequels aren\u2019t over yet,\u201d he said. \u201cThe economic recovery won\u2019t be complete until it reaches every household, every Spaniard who is without a job, and until it is felt in the pockets of every single Spaniard.\u201d About 450,000 people are expected to qualify for the new benefit.In order to be eligible, claimants must have been unemployed for more than a year, have dependents, and must have exhausted all other possible benefits. Recipients must agree to work with public officials to design a personalised job plan to help them find work.While the International Monetary Fund has said it expects the unemployment rate in Spain to remain above 20% for at least another four years, Rajoy\u2019s People\u2019s party government is relying on the country\u2019s economic growth to create jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s not the same to talk about an economy that\u2019s contracting as one that\u2019s expected to grow by 2% in the next year,\u201d Rajoy said.Spain\u2019s labour unions, who negotiated the benefit with the government, noted that only 64% of Spain\u2019s unemployed were currently eligible for any kind of government aid. \u201cTo come out of the crisis we need to recoup the standard of living we had before, and for this to happen we still have a long way to go,\u201d said Ignacio Fern\u00e1ndez Toxo, of the Workers\u2019 Commissions union. Toxo called on the government to do more to help the more than three million Spaniards living in extreme poverty, suggesting the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed and a rise in the minimum wage.\u00c1lvaro Anchuelo, of the centrist Union, Progress and Democracy party, called the benefit a step in the right direction but said it was \u201ctoo short a step. It\u2019s far too little to meet the social necessities of the country.\u201dSpain is gearing up for municipal, regional and potentially general elections in 2015. On Monday, Spanish media pointed to the rising popularity of the leftwing Podemos and the easing of austerity measures to explain the government\u2019s increasing interest in social issues.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain offers new benefit for long-term unemployed"},{"date": "2014-12-09T19:02:28Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Uber has been banned in Spain and Thailand, adding to a week of woes for the US-based taxi service that has also seen bans in India and the Netherlands and a lawsuit from the city authorities in Portland, Oregon.In Spain a judge upheld a claim by the Madrid Taxi Association that Uber\u2019s drivers were not authorised to provide the service, which amounted to unfair competition. In his ruling the judge said that by not adhering to the norms governing the taxi service market Uber drivers were competing unfairly with licensed cabs.In Thailand the government said Uber drivers were neither registered nor insured to drive commercial vehicles. It added that its credit card system didn\u2019t comply with regulations. Meanwhile the City of Portland moved on Monday to shut down the service only days after it launched there.The latest troubles for the US tech company come after the Indian government stopped web-based, unregistered taxi companies from operating after a female passenger claimed that she was raped by an Uber driver in New Delhi.The driver, who has confessed, allegedly already faced rape charges but had a forged character reference signed by a police officer.This week a Dutch court banned the cheaper UberPop service, warning drivers they could face fines of \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,000) if they violate the ban. The premium UberBlack and UberLux services remain in operation in Amsterdam. Uber said it would fight the ban.The Spanish service began in Barcelona where the regional government has said it will ban it from 2015, threatening drivers with \u20ac6,000 fines. That has now been overridden by the judge\u2019s ruling which will also cover Valencia, the other Spanish city where Uber operates.\u201cWe believe we are offering a service within the spirit of the law. We will continue to offer safe, competitive, quality services to consumers,\u201d Uber spokesman Thomas van Oortmerssen said.\u201cThe law is out of date and that means the technological service we offer had not yet been invented,\u201d he added. \u201cThe law needs to be changed to make it possible and it is now up to the politicians to do that.\u201dThe San Francisco-based service has faced opposition almost everywhere it has set up shop but has taken an aggressive stance against a sector that is almost universally heavily regulated and deeply protectionist.It is operating in 200 cities and 51 countries. Sensing public support in cities such as London, where the famous black taxis charge exorbitant rates, the company has been willing to wage legal battles in exchange for the publicity it gives them.In spite of this bumpy ride, investors have been throwing money at the company which has raised $2.9bn since it was established in 2009.Only last week it was valued at $40bn in a $1.2bn fundraising, making it on paper worth four times the room-sharing app Airbnb and not far behind General Motors valued at $53bn.The heady valuation comes barely six months since it was thought to be worth $18bn \u2013 a figure derided by some market observers at the time as absurd.", "tags": ["Uber", "Thailand", "Spain", "Technology", "Europe", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Uber taxis pick up driving bans in Spain and Thailand"},{"date": "2014-11-26T13:30:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Is citizenship about love? Money? Or both?The topic has become a difficult one in the wake of President Obama\u2019s announcement last week that he will take executive action to change the US immigration system, protecting illegal immigrants with children born in the United States from deportation. Many of their parents may come to the US for its economic opportunities but for their children, born here, it is home. The just announced policy recognizes that this new generation have a different relationship to the country.Now, at least one nation that forcibly expelled part of its own population is preparing to welcome back their descendants \u2013 more than 500 years later. But the plan raises the question as to whether the policy has more to do with love \u2013 or the struggling country\u2019s search for investment. For Alberto Ruiz-Gallardon, Spain\u2019s minister of justice, it\u2019s about rectifying one of the country\u2019s \u201cmost important historic errors\u201d. In 1492, the same month that they gave Christopher Columbus his mission to set off across the Atlantic, Spain\u2019s joint monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, ordered all their Jewish citizens to either convert to Christianity or leave the country within four months. Now the Spanish government plans to offer citizenship to any and all descendants of Jews who didn\u2019t convert. The plan, which has spent most of 2014 working its way through the Spanish legislative system, could be in force by early 2015, clearing the way for thousands \u2013 even millions \u2013 of Sephardic Jews to apply for Spanish citizenship, should they choose.But will they?It\u2019s one thing to bring tourist income to Spain for a week or so, but encouraging Sephardic Jews to think about developing permanent ties to a country their ancestors were forced to abandon half a millennium ago? At a time that country is struggling economically, with an unemployment rate that still hovers at 23.5%?Odds are that those who qualify for Spanish citizenship \u2013 who are able to put together an application and prove their lines of descent or ties to the Sephardic community \u2013 will be those with resources and who are resourceful; who are entrepreneurial and willing to break new ground. As Ilan Stavans noted in a new York Times editorial, Argentina and Mexico sought out Jewish immigrants as a way to help boost their economies in the 19th centuries; Egypt\u2019s 19th century rulers encouraged Dutch Jews to help develop that country\u2019s economy after the building of the Suez canal.So how much of Spain\u2019s actions are motivated by economic opportunism \u2013 and how much a genuine interest in making amends half a millennium later?Spain\u2019s justice minister has said the new law doesn\u2019t have \u201cany economic goals or consequences\u201d. Clearly some Americans, like Josh Nathan-Kazis, who wrote a thoughtful longform essay for the Forward, find few compelling economic reasons to abandon their birth country, and few attractions in Spain.Many of Spain\u2019s Jews \u2013 a diaspora variously estimated at between 200,000 and 500,000 \u2013 found a home in the Ottoman empire, whose sultan couldn\u2019t understand just what the Spanish monarchs had done. \u201cHow can you can you call Ferdinand of Aragon a wise king,\u201d he often wondered, \u201cthe same Ferdinand who impoverished his own land and enriched ours?\u201dSpain has been waking up to the economic potential of the Sephardic diaspora for some years, however. The first stage in the process, says Ronnie Perelis, the Alcalay Assistant Professor of Sephardic Studies at Yeshiva University, was connected with Spain\u2019s economic decline following the loss of the last of its imperial possessions in 1898. The economic crisis \u2013 and the identity crisis \u2013 that followed, prompted many to revisit Spain\u2019s glory days, including the history of the era of covivencia, a period when Christians, Jews and Muslims coexisted. That led to outreach to the Sephardic diaspora \u2013 even during the second world war, Perelis says, when Spanish ambassadors in parts of eastern Europe rescued Jews by claiming they were Sephardic and thus entitled to Spanish citizenship.The Franco regime revoked the Alhambra Decree of 1492 in 1968. In 1992, King Juan Carlos prayed in a Madrid synagogue, a gesture that probably sent his ancestors, Ferdinand and Isabella, spinning in their ornate tombs in Seville.More recently, Spanish cities have made a big push to attract Sephardic Jewish tourists interested in revisiting their past. Avila, better known for its hometown saint, Teresa, invested some $335,000 to build a memorial garden to mark the site of an ancient Jewish cemetery behind an old monastery, in spite of the country\u2019s economic problems. Avila is one of almost two dozen cities that now have joined to form a Network of Jewish Quarters, promoting their ties to their Jewish history and attract tourist revenue. Sephardic history is suddenly one of a handful of boom areas for Spain. \u201cYou can go to little Spanish towns and they will have whole Sephardic history tours,\u201d Perelis says, adding wryly: \u201cIncluding Jewish-themed restaurants decorated with legs of smoked ham.\u201dMaybe I\u2019m unduly cynical. But, given that it has now been more than a century since Spain began re-evaluating its relationship with the descendants of its long-ago citizens, is it altogether a coincidence that this initiative occurs just when Spain could most benefit from immigrants who might have investment capital to deploy?But the Sephardic community includes affluent communities in other nations, many of whom may be interested in acquiring Spanish citizenship. There are \u201cWestern-educated people living in Turkey, where it is becoming more difficult to be Jewish, or Venezuela, where you have a lot of Sephardic Jews\u201d, some of whom came from Spanish enclaves in North Africa,\u201d he says. \u201cVenezuela isn\u2019t a great place to be upper middle class these days.\u201dThe new law will probably be a windfall for at least one group: the genealogists who specialize in Sephardic Jewish family trees. It may be up to them to help winnow through the candidates, and the documentation, to determine who is and who isn\u2019t of Sephardic ancestry. That may be tough, Perelis notes. \u201cSephardic\u201d came to refer to a cultural and religious context, as much as it did a place of origin. Then, too, in places like Syria, exiles and local Jewish communities would worship together. \u201cWho is Sephardic, anyway? How will they figure it out?\u201d But some Sephardim are already thinking past those big questions, and wondering about the potential for some new culinary initiatives in Madrid. What about latkes with bravas sauce? Or even a bagel bocadillo de calamares? ", "tags": ["US personal finance", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "Economic policy"], "title": "Economic boost? Sephardic Jews contemplate a return to Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-31T15:21:34Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government has successfully passed a new copyright law which imposes fees for online content aggregators such as Google News, in an effort to protect its print media industry.The new intellectual property law, known popularly as the \u201cGoogle Tax\u201d or by its initials LPI, requires services which post links and excerpts of news articles to pay a fee to the organisation representing Spanish newspapers, the Association of Editors of Spanish Dailies (known by its Spanish-language abbreviation AEDE). Failure to pay up can lead to a fine of up to \u20ac600,000.The law is the latest volley in the war between European newspapers and Google. The publishers accuse the search firm of using their copyrighted material to build up a news service without doing any reporting itself; Google defends itself by claiming that it 10 billion views to newspapers\u2019 websites every month.The company says that it is \u201cdisappointed\u201d with Spain\u2019s new law. \u201cWe believe that services like Google News help publishers bring traffic to their sites. As far as the future is concerned, we will continue working with the Spanish publishers to help increase their revenues while we evaluate our options within the framework of the new legislation.\u201dA similar law passed in Germany saw Google removing the affected newspapers from Google news altogether \u2013 before the publishers eventually came back and asked to be relisted after seeing their traffic plummet, a step they said they had to take because of the \u201coverwhelming market power of Google\u201d.The \u201cGoogle tax\u201d isn\u2019t the only component of Spain\u2019s law, which tightens up existing regulation. Once it comes into action at the beginning of 2014, the country will also require websites to remove links to material that infringes copyright, even if the websites themselves don\u2019t make money from the infringement.That requirement doesn\u2019t require copyright holders to go through a judge before demanding links be removed, while imposing fines of \u20ac600,000 on sites which don\u2019t act.The law also applies to the third party sites providing hosting or payment services to the infringing site, something that has led opponents of the law have labelled it \u201ccensorship\u201d, comparing it to the financial boycott of Wikileaks. \u201cThe law opens the possibility for the state to sabotage any online content simply using fear,\u201d lawyer Carols Sanchez Almeida told Gizmodo. \u201cAre you going to risk a fine of \u20ac600,000 to host a link? No.\u201dThe LPI was passed by the ruling People\u2019s Party, in the face of heavy resistance from the opposition parties, who called it \u201ca disaster\u201d and \u201ca missed opportunity.\u201d\u2022 Google investors press for code of conduct on tax", "tags": ["Google", "Spain", "Technology", "Internet", "Intellectual property", "Search engines", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Spain moves to protect domestic media with new 'Google tax'"},{"date": "2014-10-13T12:19:40Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s foreign affairs minister has defended the government\u2019s decision to repatriate two Spanish nationals with Ebola, despite a nurse who treated them becoming the first person to contract the virus outside of west Africa.\u201cThe government did what it had to do,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo told El Pa\u00eds newspaper. \u201cThe duty of a state is to protect its citizens \u2013 and even more so when they are in difficult circumstances far from Spain. All the developed countries who have had this problem have done the same.\u201dThe two missionaries, Miguel Pajares, 75, and Manuel Garc\u00eda Viejo, 69, died in August and September, days after being evacuated to Madrid for treatment. Spanish nurse Teresa Romero Ramos tested positive for the Ebola virus shortly after. She remains in a stable but serious condition.Garc\u00eda-Margallo argued that far from hurting Spain\u2019s image, the Ebola case would show the world the strength of the Spanish healthcare system. \u201cIn the face of an event that can happen in any country, Spanish society has demonstrated its solidarity, and in the long run we will see that our healthcare system is among the world\u2019s best.\u201dOn Sunday, Fernando Sim\u00f3n, of Spain\u2019s health ministry, said the presence of the virus in Romero Ramos\u2019s blood appeared to be diminishing. \u201cWe have high hopes that the infection is under control,\u201d he said. Fifteen others remain in quarantine in Madrid\u2019s Carlos III hospital, including the nurse\u2019s husband and several health workers who treated her before she tested positive for Ebola. None of them have shown symptoms of the virus.Last week, in a phone interview from her hospital bed, Romero Ramos told El Pa\u00eds that she might have touched her face with her gloves while removing her protective suit. She later told the Spanish broadcaster Cuatro that she had been given \u201clittle training\u201d on how to put on and take off the suit.Complaints of scant training by health workers has led Madrid\u2019s top prosecutor to launch an investigation. The matter was brought before court by workers\u2019 unions, who argue that the Spanish health authorities violated labour laws by failing to provide adequate protection and training for its employees.Amelia Batanero, a nurse who underwent training to treat Ebola patients at the Carlos III, told the Guardian: \u201cWe haven\u2019t learned how to use these suits, we don\u2019t know the protocol on how to treat Ebola.\u201dThe news that a healthcare worker in Dallas has also contracted the Ebola virus prompted comparisons on Monday between the differing response in each country to the infected health workers.Despite the fact this was the US authorities\u2019 second case of Ebola \u2013 after the death of Thomas Eric Duncan in Dallas this month \u2013 and had been riddled with missteps, the Spanish media used the news to take aim at their government\u2019s slow response.Romero Ramos contacted health authorities several times over the course of nearly a week before she was tested for Ebola, while the unnamed US healthcare worker was put in quarantine less than 90 minutes after she arrived at a hospital complaining of a slight fever.Many of Romero Ramos\u2019s neighbours learned of the diagnosis through the media, in contrast to the US where authorities contacted the patient\u2019s neighbours to explain the situation. And while a global protest failed to prevent health authorities in Spain from putting down Romero Ramos\u2019s dog, Exc\u00e1libur, US authorities facing a similar situation have promise to save the healthcare worker\u2019s dog.", "tags": ["Ebola", "Spain", "World news", "Infectious diseases", "Medical research", "Microbiology", "Science", "Europe", "US news"], "title": "Spain defends Ebola repatriations"},{"date": "2014-11-19T11:56:29Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Greenpeace protest ship Arctic Sunrise has been taken into custody by the Spanish government in waters off the Canary Islands, just months after it was released by the Russian government. Spain\u2019s Ministry of public works and transportation detained the vessel on Tuesday night pending an investigation against the captain for an \u201cinfringement against marine traffic rules\u201d. The maximum fine for the offence is \u20ac300,000 (\u00a3240,000).On Saturday, Greenpeace protesters from the ship approached the Repsol oil ship Rowan Renaissance \u2013 ignoring warnings from the Spanish navy to leave an exclusion zone. Activists were injured after their rhibs \u2013 an inflatable boat with a rigid hull \u2013 were repeatedly rammed by the Spanish navy. Footage of the clashes showed the moment when one activist had her leg broken and was thrown into the water.Spain\u2019s defence minister Pedro Moren\u00e9s told Spanish media that the navy was fulfilling its duty under international maritime conventions to \u201cput a stop\u201d to the committing of \u201callegedly criminal facts\u201d through a \u201cproportionate use of force\u201d.Greenpeace said the Spanish detention of the ship was \u201can unnecessary and disproportionate response\u201d.Mario Rodriguez, director of Greenpeace Spain, said: \u201cThe detention of the Arctic Sunrise violates the rights of all people who strive to defend the environment. It\u2019s telling that the Spanish government would so quickly support the interests of an oil company, Repsol, against a peaceful environmental organisation which stands alongside millions of people who oppose reckless oil exploration.\u201dJust over a week ago, 200,000 Canarians protested against oil company Repsol\u2019s plans to drill for oil off the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. Environmentalists and a community reliant on tourism fear an oil spill that could destroy the marine ecosystem.It is just six months since the Arctic Sunrise was released by Russian authorities following a nine month detention for attempting to board a Gazprom oil rig in the actions against oil drilling in the Arctic. Unlike Russia, the Spanish authorities have not arrested the captain or crew. Spain has set a bond of \u20ac50,000 before it will release the vessel.", "tags": ["Greenpeace", "Spain", "Europe", "Environment", "Protest", "Oil"], "title": "Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise detained in Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-02T18:55:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why has there been so little coverage in your paper recently over the Catalan-Spanish question? Especially over recent days, when events have moved on further to what looks like a developing major constitutional crisis within the EU. I am the grandson of a Catalan exile from the Spanish civil war and am acutely aware of the way other European nations, including the British, dealt with that problem culminating in the pact of non-intervention and essentially allowing Spain to then suffer 40 years of dictatorship.I, like many Catalans or descendants, have been on a political journey since the democratisation of Spain. I started with optimism and the hope that true democracy had taken root. But unfortunately in the last decade I\u2019ve witnessed a marked move to recentralise Spain and increasingly how politicians are using the Spanish constitution to enforce their agenda. The turning point was when the ruling People\u2019s party used the constitutional tribunal to outlaw the new Catalan constitution, which had previously been voted for in a Catalan referendum and then passed by the Spanish parliament. We now have a situation where a non-referendum and non-legally binding consultation on home rule passed by the Catalan government and demanded by 80% of the Catalan people in a mass civic movement, has been overturned by the constitutional tribunal again.European governments say this is an internal matter and it\u2019s an acceptable position, although David Cameron has advised the Spanish to allow Catalans a say as he\u2019s done with Scotland. However, on 9 November, if the vote is blocked, the Catalan government will be forced into calling an early plebiscitary election and, depending on the result, make a unilateral declaration of independence. The matter would then become an international one and other states could not continue sitting on the fence.I ask the UK and its institutions (in which I include the press), beacons of democracy throughout the civilised world, not to ignore the Spanish question again and to continue to promote democracy.Joseph A MunozHuntingdon, Cambridgeshire", "tags": ["Catalonia", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "European Union"], "title": "Europe must address Spain-Catalonia issue | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-15T19:35:01Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The year he turned 40, Fernando Mora lost the only job he had ever had. It was 2009 and the financial crisis had wiped out the carpentry job he had held since he was 18. As Spain entered its deepest recession in half a century, his wife lost her job in senior care a short time later, while their daughters, both in their 20s, struggled to find jobs.By 2013, everyone in the family had exhausted their government unemployment benefits. \u201cWe\u2019re without any benefits or compensation, nothing at all,\u201d Mora explained in the short documentary No Job Land. \u201cI owe money to everyone.\u201dIn a country where one in four people are unemployed, Mora\u2019s story stood out. His family had become one of the more than 700,000 households in Spain with no stable source of income.On Monday the government paved the way towards tackling the issue. Starting in mid-January, a new benefit of up to \u20ac426 (\u00a3338) a month will be made available to unemployed families who have exhausted all other forms of income. The benefit can be claimed for six months.The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, said that in many respects the crisis was over. \u201cBut its sequels aren\u2019t over yet,\u201d he said. \u201cThe economic recovery won\u2019t be complete until it reaches every household, every Spaniard who is without a job, and until it is felt in the pockets of every single Spaniard.\u201d About 450,000 people are expected to qualify for the new benefit.In order to be eligible, claimants must have been unemployed for more than a year, have dependents, and must have exhausted all other possible benefits. Recipients must agree to work with public officials to design a personalised job plan to help them find work.While the International Monetary Fund has said it expects the unemployment rate in Spain to remain above 20% for at least another four years, Rajoy\u2019s People\u2019s party government is relying on the country\u2019s economic growth to create jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s not the same to talk about an economy that\u2019s contracting as one that\u2019s expected to grow by 2% in the next year,\u201d Rajoy said.Spain\u2019s labour unions, who negotiated the benefit with the government, noted that only 64% of Spain\u2019s unemployed were currently eligible for any kind of government aid. \u201cTo come out of the crisis we need to recoup the standard of living we had before, and for this to happen we still have a long way to go,\u201d said Ignacio Fern\u00e1ndez Toxo, of the Workers\u2019 Commissions union. Toxo called on the government to do more to help the more than three million Spaniards living in extreme poverty, suggesting the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed and a rise in the minimum wage.\u00c1lvaro Anchuelo, of the centrist Union, Progress and Democracy party, called the benefit a step in the right direction but said it was \u201ctoo short a step. It\u2019s far too little to meet the social necessities of the country.\u201dSpain is gearing up for municipal, regional and potentially general elections in 2015. On Monday, Spanish media pointed to the rising popularity of the leftwing Podemos and the easing of austerity measures to explain the government\u2019s increasing interest in social issues.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Spain offers new benefit for long-term unemployed"},{"date": "2014-12-09T19:02:28Z", "country": "spain", "content": " Uber has been banned in Spain and Thailand, adding to a week of woes for the US-based taxi service that has also seen bans in India and the Netherlands and a lawsuit from the city authorities in Portland, Oregon.In Spain a judge upheld a claim by the Madrid Taxi Association that Uber\u2019s drivers were not authorised to provide the service, which amounted to unfair competition. In his ruling the judge said that by not adhering to the norms governing the taxi service market Uber drivers were competing unfairly with licensed cabs.In Thailand the government said Uber drivers were neither registered nor insured to drive commercial vehicles. It added that its credit card system didn\u2019t comply with regulations. Meanwhile the City of Portland moved on Monday to shut down the service only days after it launched there.The latest troubles for the US tech company come after the Indian government stopped web-based, unregistered taxi companies from operating after a female passenger claimed that she was raped by an Uber driver in New Delhi.The driver, who has confessed, allegedly already faced rape charges but had a forged character reference signed by a police officer.This week a Dutch court banned the cheaper UberPop service, warning drivers they could face fines of \u20ac10,000 (\u00a38,000) if they violate the ban. The premium UberBlack and UberLux services remain in operation in Amsterdam. Uber said it would fight the ban.The Spanish service began in Barcelona where the regional government has said it will ban it from 2015, threatening drivers with \u20ac6,000 fines. That has now been overridden by the judge\u2019s ruling which will also cover Valencia, the other Spanish city where Uber operates.\u201cWe believe we are offering a service within the spirit of the law. We will continue to offer safe, competitive, quality services to consumers,\u201d Uber spokesman Thomas van Oortmerssen said.\u201cThe law is out of date and that means the technological service we offer had not yet been invented,\u201d he added. \u201cThe law needs to be changed to make it possible and it is now up to the politicians to do that.\u201dThe San Francisco-based service has faced opposition almost everywhere it has set up shop but has taken an aggressive stance against a sector that is almost universally heavily regulated and deeply protectionist.It is operating in 200 cities and 51 countries. Sensing public support in cities such as London, where the famous black taxis charge exorbitant rates, the company has been willing to wage legal battles in exchange for the publicity it gives them.In spite of this bumpy ride, investors have been throwing money at the company which has raised $2.9bn since it was established in 2009.Only last week it was valued at $40bn in a $1.2bn fundraising, making it on paper worth four times the room-sharing app Airbnb and not far behind General Motors valued at $53bn.The heady valuation comes barely six months since it was thought to be worth $18bn \u2013 a figure derided by some market observers at the time as absurd.", "tags": ["Uber", "Thailand", "Spain", "Technology", "Europe", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Uber taxis pick up driving bans in Spain and Thailand"},{"date": "2014-11-26T13:30:06Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Is citizenship about love? Money? Or both?The topic has become a difficult one in the wake of President Obama\u2019s announcement last week that he will take executive action to change the US immigration system, protecting illegal immigrants with children born in the United States from deportation. Many of their parents may come to the US for its economic opportunities but for their children, born here, it is home. The just announced policy recognizes that this new generation have a different relationship to the country.Now, at least one nation that forcibly expelled part of its own population is preparing to welcome back their descendants \u2013 more than 500 years later. But the plan raises the question as to whether the policy has more to do with love \u2013 or the struggling country\u2019s search for investment. For Alberto Ruiz-Gallardon, Spain\u2019s minister of justice, it\u2019s about rectifying one of the country\u2019s \u201cmost important historic errors\u201d. In 1492, the same month that they gave Christopher Columbus his mission to set off across the Atlantic, Spain\u2019s joint monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, ordered all their Jewish citizens to either convert to Christianity or leave the country within four months. Now the Spanish government plans to offer citizenship to any and all descendants of Jews who didn\u2019t convert. The plan, which has spent most of 2014 working its way through the Spanish legislative system, could be in force by early 2015, clearing the way for thousands \u2013 even millions \u2013 of Sephardic Jews to apply for Spanish citizenship, should they choose.But will they?It\u2019s one thing to bring tourist income to Spain for a week or so, but encouraging Sephardic Jews to think about developing permanent ties to a country their ancestors were forced to abandon half a millennium ago? At a time that country is struggling economically, with an unemployment rate that still hovers at 23.5%?Odds are that those who qualify for Spanish citizenship \u2013 who are able to put together an application and prove their lines of descent or ties to the Sephardic community \u2013 will be those with resources and who are resourceful; who are entrepreneurial and willing to break new ground. As Ilan Stavans noted in a new York Times editorial, Argentina and Mexico sought out Jewish immigrants as a way to help boost their economies in the 19th centuries; Egypt\u2019s 19th century rulers encouraged Dutch Jews to help develop that country\u2019s economy after the building of the Suez canal.So how much of Spain\u2019s actions are motivated by economic opportunism \u2013 and how much a genuine interest in making amends half a millennium later?Spain\u2019s justice minister has said the new law doesn\u2019t have \u201cany economic goals or consequences\u201d. Clearly some Americans, like Josh Nathan-Kazis, who wrote a thoughtful longform essay for the Forward, find few compelling economic reasons to abandon their birth country, and few attractions in Spain.Many of Spain\u2019s Jews \u2013 a diaspora variously estimated at between 200,000 and 500,000 \u2013 found a home in the Ottoman empire, whose sultan couldn\u2019t understand just what the Spanish monarchs had done. \u201cHow can you can you call Ferdinand of Aragon a wise king,\u201d he often wondered, \u201cthe same Ferdinand who impoverished his own land and enriched ours?\u201dSpain has been waking up to the economic potential of the Sephardic diaspora for some years, however. The first stage in the process, says Ronnie Perelis, the Alcalay Assistant Professor of Sephardic Studies at Yeshiva University, was connected with Spain\u2019s economic decline following the loss of the last of its imperial possessions in 1898. The economic crisis \u2013 and the identity crisis \u2013 that followed, prompted many to revisit Spain\u2019s glory days, including the history of the era of covivencia, a period when Christians, Jews and Muslims coexisted. That led to outreach to the Sephardic diaspora \u2013 even during the second world war, Perelis says, when Spanish ambassadors in parts of eastern Europe rescued Jews by claiming they were Sephardic and thus entitled to Spanish citizenship.The Franco regime revoked the Alhambra Decree of 1492 in 1968. In 1992, King Juan Carlos prayed in a Madrid synagogue, a gesture that probably sent his ancestors, Ferdinand and Isabella, spinning in their ornate tombs in Seville.More recently, Spanish cities have made a big push to attract Sephardic Jewish tourists interested in revisiting their past. Avila, better known for its hometown saint, Teresa, invested some $335,000 to build a memorial garden to mark the site of an ancient Jewish cemetery behind an old monastery, in spite of the country\u2019s economic problems. Avila is one of almost two dozen cities that now have joined to form a Network of Jewish Quarters, promoting their ties to their Jewish history and attract tourist revenue. Sephardic history is suddenly one of a handful of boom areas for Spain. \u201cYou can go to little Spanish towns and they will have whole Sephardic history tours,\u201d Perelis says, adding wryly: \u201cIncluding Jewish-themed restaurants decorated with legs of smoked ham.\u201dMaybe I\u2019m unduly cynical. But, given that it has now been more than a century since Spain began re-evaluating its relationship with the descendants of its long-ago citizens, is it altogether a coincidence that this initiative occurs just when Spain could most benefit from immigrants who might have investment capital to deploy?But the Sephardic community includes affluent communities in other nations, many of whom may be interested in acquiring Spanish citizenship. There are \u201cWestern-educated people living in Turkey, where it is becoming more difficult to be Jewish, or Venezuela, where you have a lot of Sephardic Jews\u201d, some of whom came from Spanish enclaves in North Africa,\u201d he says. \u201cVenezuela isn\u2019t a great place to be upper middle class these days.\u201dThe new law will probably be a windfall for at least one group: the genealogists who specialize in Sephardic Jewish family trees. It may be up to them to help winnow through the candidates, and the documentation, to determine who is and who isn\u2019t of Sephardic ancestry. That may be tough, Perelis notes. \u201cSephardic\u201d came to refer to a cultural and religious context, as much as it did a place of origin. Then, too, in places like Syria, exiles and local Jewish communities would worship together. \u201cWho is Sephardic, anyway? How will they figure it out?\u201d But some Sephardim are already thinking past those big questions, and wondering about the potential for some new culinary initiatives in Madrid. What about latkes with bravas sauce? Or even a bagel bocadillo de calamares? ", "tags": ["US personal finance", "Business", "Spain", "Europe", "Economic policy"], "title": "Economic boost? Sephardic Jews contemplate a return to Spain"},{"date": "2014-10-31T15:21:34Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government has successfully passed a new copyright law which imposes fees for online content aggregators such as Google News, in an effort to protect its print media industry.The new intellectual property law, known popularly as the \u201cGoogle Tax\u201d or by its initials LPI, requires services which post links and excerpts of news articles to pay a fee to the organisation representing Spanish newspapers, the Association of Editors of Spanish Dailies (known by its Spanish-language abbreviation AEDE). Failure to pay up can lead to a fine of up to \u20ac600,000.The law is the latest volley in the war between European newspapers and Google. The publishers accuse the search firm of using their copyrighted material to build up a news service without doing any reporting itself; Google defends itself by claiming that it 10 billion views to newspapers\u2019 websites every month.The company says that it is \u201cdisappointed\u201d with Spain\u2019s new law. \u201cWe believe that services like Google News help publishers bring traffic to their sites. As far as the future is concerned, we will continue working with the Spanish publishers to help increase their revenues while we evaluate our options within the framework of the new legislation.\u201dA similar law passed in Germany saw Google removing the affected newspapers from Google news altogether \u2013 before the publishers eventually came back and asked to be relisted after seeing their traffic plummet, a step they said they had to take because of the \u201coverwhelming market power of Google\u201d.The \u201cGoogle tax\u201d isn\u2019t the only component of Spain\u2019s law, which tightens up existing regulation. Once it comes into action at the beginning of 2014, the country will also require websites to remove links to material that infringes copyright, even if the websites themselves don\u2019t make money from the infringement.That requirement doesn\u2019t require copyright holders to go through a judge before demanding links be removed, while imposing fines of \u20ac600,000 on sites which don\u2019t act.The law also applies to the third party sites providing hosting or payment services to the infringing site, something that has led opponents of the law have labelled it \u201ccensorship\u201d, comparing it to the financial boycott of Wikileaks. \u201cThe law opens the possibility for the state to sabotage any online content simply using fear,\u201d lawyer Carols Sanchez Almeida told Gizmodo. \u201cAre you going to risk a fine of \u20ac600,000 to host a link? No.\u201dThe LPI was passed by the ruling People\u2019s Party, in the face of heavy resistance from the opposition parties, who called it \u201ca disaster\u201d and \u201ca missed opportunity.\u201d\u2022 Google investors press for code of conduct on tax", "tags": ["Google", "Spain", "Technology", "Internet", "Intellectual property", "Search engines", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Spain moves to protect domestic media with new 'Google tax'"},{"date": "2014-10-10T09:41:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Vicente del Bosque defended his Spain players after the European champions suffered their first qualifying defeat in eight years away to Slovakia on Thursday night.Jural Kucka\u2019s long-range free-kick gave Slovakia an early lead in the Group C game after Iker Cassilas misjudged the flight of the ball. Spain substitute Paco Alc\u00e1cer drew level with eight minutes remaining before Miroslav Stoch scored an 87th-minute winner.\u201cWe did not expect this,\u201d Del Bosque said. \u201cIt is our first defeat in 28 qualifying games. It is more good by them than bad by us. They made it difficult for us. We had patience to move the ball around, but we were not accurate in front of goal and their keeper played well.\u201cNobody likes to lose, but nobody can say we lacked effort or attitude. We lost due to circumstances of football. The counterattack for the second goal was very good. We have to say they played some good football.\u201dDel Bosque was particularly keen to defend Casillas following his blunder for Slovakia\u2019s opening goal \u2013 suggesting the ball\u2019s movement deceived the Real Madrid goalkeeper.\u201cCasillas had saved a good chance from Slovakia in the previous move,\u201d he said. \u201cI could not see clearly from the bench, but the ball seemed to move strangely in the air and Iker was deceived.\u201dSpain also struggled in attack with Diego Costa unable to replicate the form he has shown for Chelsea.\u201cWe lacked depth in our attacks,\u201d Del Bosque said. \u201cWe made changes to freshen things up. They [Slovakia] had practically given up on attacking.\u201d\u201cCosta is very enthusiastic, putting in the effort. As well as his performance we are happy with his behaviour and his commitment.\u201dSpain face Luxembourg on Sunday but Del Bosque played down the impact of Thursday\u2019s defeat. \u201cThere are just two games played, nothing is clear yet,\u201d Del Bosque said. \u201cSlovakia have six points, and top the classification, but there are games left to turn that around. The first game we won easily with five goals. We deserved a draw today at least I believe. I do not believe we are now in a negative dynamic.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "Slovakia", "Euro 2016 qualifiers", "Football", "Euro 2016"], "title": "Vicente del Bosque defends Spain after shock Slovakia defeat"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-11T15:21:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government is considering legal action against HSBC after it emerged that its private bank in Switzerland helped its clients dodge tax authorities around the world. The HSBC files show 2,694 Spaniards held accounts in the bank\u2019s Swiss subsidiary, with savings totalling $2.3bn (\u00a31.5bn).On Tuesday Spain\u2019s finance minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said he had asked the government\u2019s legal counsel to carry out a \u201cstudy of the legal actions that can be taken against HSBC for its participation in carrying out fiscal fraud, laundering and other wrongful acts committed by Spanish residents\u201d. The conservative People\u2019s party minister\u2019s remarks were a departure from his initial reaction to the leaks published by the Guardian and dozens of other media outlets. On Monday, Montoro called the scandal \u201cold news\u201d, explaining that the list of Spaniards involved had been given to Spanish tax authorities in 2010, when the Socialists were in government. \u201cWe\u2019ve already taken action to address them.\u201d In 2010, tax authorities contacted more than 650 Spanish residents on the list who were suspected of tax evasion, offering them the chance to avoid inspection by voluntarily settling their debts. Spain\u2019s Bot\u00edn family, whose members head Santander bank, paid \u20ac200m (\u00a3150m) in back taxes to the Spanish government, ending an investigation for tax fraud. At the time, neither the Socialists nor the People\u2019s party moved to take action against HSBC.Montoro\u2019s initial dismissal of the subject contrasted with that of his political opponents. The anti-austerity party Podemos announced that it had asked the HSBC whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani to draw up a report on tackling tax evasion, while the Socialists demanded reforms to Spain\u2019s tax law to allow the names of tax evaders to be released publicly.In a year that will see municipal, regional and probably general elections take place across the country, Spain\u2019s politicians have been keen to show that they are actively addressing issues such as tax evasion, which ranks high among Spaniards\u2019 preoccupations.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "HSBC", "Banking", "European banks", "Banco Santander", "Financial sector", "World news"], "title": "Spain considers suing HSBC over 'fiscal fraud and laundering'"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-11T15:21:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government is considering legal action against HSBC after it emerged that its private bank in Switzerland helped its clients dodge tax authorities around the world. The HSBC files show 2,694 Spaniards held accounts in the bank\u2019s Swiss subsidiary, with savings totalling $2.3bn (\u00a31.5bn).On Tuesday Spain\u2019s finance minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said he had asked the government\u2019s legal counsel to carry out a \u201cstudy of the legal actions that can be taken against HSBC for its participation in carrying out fiscal fraud, laundering and other wrongful acts committed by Spanish residents\u201d. The conservative People\u2019s party minister\u2019s remarks were a departure from his initial reaction to the leaks published by the Guardian and dozens of other media outlets. On Monday, Montoro called the scandal \u201cold news\u201d, explaining that the list of Spaniards involved had been given to Spanish tax authorities in 2010, when the Socialists were in government. \u201cWe\u2019ve already taken action to address them.\u201d In 2010, tax authorities contacted more than 650 Spanish residents on the list who were suspected of tax evasion, offering them the chance to avoid inspection by voluntarily settling their debts. Spain\u2019s Bot\u00edn family, whose members head Santander bank, paid \u20ac200m (\u00a3150m) in back taxes to the Spanish government, ending an investigation for tax fraud. At the time, neither the Socialists nor the People\u2019s party moved to take action against HSBC.Montoro\u2019s initial dismissal of the subject contrasted with that of his political opponents. The anti-austerity party Podemos announced that it had asked the HSBC whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani to draw up a report on tackling tax evasion, while the Socialists demanded reforms to Spain\u2019s tax law to allow the names of tax evaders to be released publicly.In a year that will see municipal, regional and probably general elections take place across the country, Spain\u2019s politicians have been keen to show that they are actively addressing issues such as tax evasion, which ranks high among Spaniards\u2019 preoccupations.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "HSBC", "Banking", "European banks", "Banco Santander", "Financial sector", "World news"], "title": "Spain considers suing HSBC over 'fiscal fraud and laundering'"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:23:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If first impressions count, then the political force that wants to transform Spain in 2015 consists mainly of student types and self-conscious outsiders. That, at any rate, is the scene when you enter Podemos\u2019s crammed, disorderly office in Madrid\u2019s popular Lavapi\u00e9s district. Posters are being prepared for the movement\u2019s first big street demonstration, planned for 31 January. A young woman sitting in front of a computer says she has no job and decided to become a Podemos volunteer because \u201cif we don\u2019t start taking things into our hands, la casta will just\u00a0continue as before\u201d.This is the closest thing Spain has to Syriza, the radical leftwing party that just came to power in Greece. Only a year after its launch last January, Podemos (\u201cWe can\u201d) is riding high in opinion polls. General elections are due at the end of the year. Just like Syriza, Podemos has a charismatic leader, the pony-tailed 36-year-old professor of political science, Pablo Iglesias. Like Syriza, Podemos calls for an end to traditional politics and rolling back austerity. Its key target is la casta (\u201cthe caste\u201d), the dominant two-party system that has ruled Spain since democracy was restored in the late 1970s, after Franco\u2019s death.Opposite the Podemos office, there\u2019s a book shop run by some of its activists. Browsing through it feels like you\u2019ve stepped into a time-machine: there are collections of Lenin\u2019s works, and books on the Italian communist thinker Antonio Gramsci and the French 19th-century revolutionary Louise Michel.The more likely clue to Podemos\u2019s rise can be found on the television news: an\u00a0endless stream of revelations about corruption cases. Spain\u2019s macroeconomic situation may have improved, but that hasn\u2019t translated yet into improved living standards: youth unemployment still stands at a staggering 50%. Podemos taps into the despair over these numbers just as\u00a0Syriza has done in Greece. It offers new young faces and resorts to social media in its bid to modernise Spanish politics, calling for more social justice and democratic accountability of the elites. But beyond that, its programme remains vague.Podemos certainly fascinates. Unlike\u00a0Syriza, it didn\u2019t even exist a few years ago. It stormed Spanish politics last May by gaining an unexpected 8%\u00a0of votes in the European\u00a0parliamentary elections. This\u00a0came as a surprise to many. In fact it was the result of a clever strategy put together by a small group of\u00a0Madrid leftwing intellectuals.This is how it happened: when the 2011 Indignados youth protests died down in Spain, a group of political scientists from the capital\u2019s Complutense university, including Iglesias, saw an opportunity. They built on the online networks for the Indignados and put into practice some of the political techniques they had learned while studying Gramsci and the Argentinian post-Marxist political theorist Ernesto Laclau, an influential advocate of political populism. Out of this was borne Podemos\u2019s central narrative: \u201cThe people versus la casta.\u201d \u201cThey understood the key was not to dwell on class consciousness,\u201d says political analyst Fernando Vallesp\u00edn, \u201cbut to frame the very perception of politics.\u201d It worked. Many Spaniards watching the eloquent Iglesias on TV or online started to\u00a0identify the \u201ccasta\u201d, the ruling class, as the source of their woes. One only needs to remember past headlines about Spain\u2019s spectacular economic success story in the early 2000s, when easy credit fed a construction bubble, to realise how much of a boom-to-bust phenomenon has weighed on the national psyche. One middle-aged Spaniard put if to me this way: \u201cWe discovered we weren\u2019t as good as we thought. We thought Spain had qualified to be at the heart of Europe, and all of a sudden, we were rejected to its lame periphery \u2026\u201dThere is an admirable romanticism to Podemos shaking up a sclerotic political scene. But behind its utopian energy there is more cold-blooded realpolitik than meets the eye. Podemos portrays itself as giving a voice to the ordinary citizens consulted on the internet or through hundreds of spontaneous assemblies called \u201ccircles\u201d. Yet once the online voting has happened, the overall message is decided by a 10-member coordination council, nominated by Iglesias. At its worst, Podemos could resemble something like Leninist-centralism-meets-the-digital-era.Explaining his communication strategy, Iglesias once pointed out how in 1917 Lenin \u201cdidn\u2019t talk to the Russians about \u2018dialectical materialism\u2019, he talked to them about \u2018bread and peace\u2019\u201d. The Podemos leader also believes that \u201cHeaven is not taken by consensus, it is taken by assault.\u201d Such statements have made it easy for critics to accuse Iglesias of authoritarian tendencies, influenced by outdated ideologies.Iglesias and his close circle of friends in the Podemos leadership have spent time in Venezuela and Bolivia in the last decade, some of them acting as advisers to regimes whose democratic credentials aren\u2019t exactly solid. Questions have been raised in the Spanish media about financial dealings from the regime of the late Venezuelan leader Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, whom Iglesias has expressed admiration for. Podemos has since\u00a0toned down its rhetoric about Bolivarian revolutions; it now claims to\u00a0want to mimic northern European social democrats instead.But the impression of ideological muddle endures. During the Maidan protests in Ukraine, Iglesias largely came down on the side of Putin\u2019s propaganda. And when Syriza\u00a0formed a coalition with the antisemitic, far-right Independent Greek\u00a0party, Iglesias defended it as \u201ca\u00a0programmatic choice\u201d.Podemos has successfully captured a mood of popular protest in Spain, but it is now aiming to structure itself as\u00a0a credible and reassuring political party.\u00a0It\u00a0claims to renew democracy, yet it knows complex issues cannot always be addressed via online petitions. It has the ambition of a mass movement but is run by a tight circle of\u00a0professors. It talks about hope but its\u00a0casta narrative is very Manichean.Some say the pragmatic transformation is already under way. They compare Pablo Iglesias to the young Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez, the former socialist prime minister who understood that his party needed to shed itself of radicalism in order to be elected in 1982. Spain, like Greece, is undergoing a generational shift. Diego Pacheco, a Podemos activist born in 1986 \u2013 the year Spain joined the European Community \u2013 speaks passionately about a quest for \u201cempowerment\u201d. \u201cPodemos is not about being anti-EU, but about finding a way to move beyond the system that emerged from the post-Franco transition that our parents were part of,\u201d he says.Spain\u2019s economic recovery will make\u00a0it harder for Podemos than Syriza\u00a0to win elections. Its main competitor, the Spanish Socialist party,\u00a0still has more strength than Pasok. The digital meeting place Podemos has built might also show its limits. After Greece, Spain\u00a0is likely to be the next country\u00a0entering uncharted\u00a0political waters in 2015, but it would be naive to think the electoral outcome will\u00a0be as clear cut.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Greece", "Syriza", "Europe", "Austerity", "Business"], "title": "Will Spain join the Greek revolution? Don\u2019t bet on it | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-11T15:21:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government is considering legal action against HSBC after it emerged that its private bank in Switzerland helped its clients dodge tax authorities around the world. The HSBC files show 2,694 Spaniards held accounts in the bank\u2019s Swiss subsidiary, with savings totalling $2.3bn (\u00a31.5bn).On Tuesday Spain\u2019s finance minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said he had asked the government\u2019s legal counsel to carry out a \u201cstudy of the legal actions that can be taken against HSBC for its participation in carrying out fiscal fraud, laundering and other wrongful acts committed by Spanish residents\u201d. The conservative People\u2019s party minister\u2019s remarks were a departure from his initial reaction to the leaks published by the Guardian and dozens of other media outlets. On Monday, Montoro called the scandal \u201cold news\u201d, explaining that the list of Spaniards involved had been given to Spanish tax authorities in 2010, when the Socialists were in government. \u201cWe\u2019ve already taken action to address them.\u201d In 2010, tax authorities contacted more than 650 Spanish residents on the list who were suspected of tax evasion, offering them the chance to avoid inspection by voluntarily settling their debts. Spain\u2019s Bot\u00edn family, whose members head Santander bank, paid \u20ac200m (\u00a3150m) in back taxes to the Spanish government, ending an investigation for tax fraud. At the time, neither the Socialists nor the People\u2019s party moved to take action against HSBC.Montoro\u2019s initial dismissal of the subject contrasted with that of his political opponents. The anti-austerity party Podemos announced that it had asked the HSBC whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani to draw up a report on tackling tax evasion, while the Socialists demanded reforms to Spain\u2019s tax law to allow the names of tax evaders to be released publicly.In a year that will see municipal, regional and probably general elections take place across the country, Spain\u2019s politicians have been keen to show that they are actively addressing issues such as tax evasion, which ranks high among Spaniards\u2019 preoccupations.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "HSBC", "Banking", "European banks", "Banco Santander", "Financial sector", "World news"], "title": "Spain considers suing HSBC over 'fiscal fraud and laundering'"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:23:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If first impressions count, then the political force that wants to transform Spain in 2015 consists mainly of student types and self-conscious outsiders. That, at any rate, is the scene when you enter Podemos\u2019s crammed, disorderly office in Madrid\u2019s popular Lavapi\u00e9s district. Posters are being prepared for the movement\u2019s first big street demonstration, planned for 31 January. A young woman sitting in front of a computer says she has no job and decided to become a Podemos volunteer because \u201cif we don\u2019t start taking things into our hands, la casta will just\u00a0continue as before\u201d.This is the closest thing Spain has to Syriza, the radical leftwing party that just came to power in Greece. Only a year after its launch last January, Podemos (\u201cWe can\u201d) is riding high in opinion polls. General elections are due at the end of the year. Just like Syriza, Podemos has a charismatic leader, the pony-tailed 36-year-old professor of political science, Pablo Iglesias. Like Syriza, Podemos calls for an end to traditional politics and rolling back austerity. Its key target is la casta (\u201cthe caste\u201d), the dominant two-party system that has ruled Spain since democracy was restored in the late 1970s, after Franco\u2019s death.Opposite the Podemos office, there\u2019s a book shop run by some of its activists. Browsing through it feels like you\u2019ve stepped into a time-machine: there are collections of Lenin\u2019s works, and books on the Italian communist thinker Antonio Gramsci and the French 19th-century revolutionary Louise Michel.The more likely clue to Podemos\u2019s rise can be found on the television news: an\u00a0endless stream of revelations about corruption cases. Spain\u2019s macroeconomic situation may have improved, but that hasn\u2019t translated yet into improved living standards: youth unemployment still stands at a staggering 50%. Podemos taps into the despair over these numbers just as\u00a0Syriza has done in Greece. It offers new young faces and resorts to social media in its bid to modernise Spanish politics, calling for more social justice and democratic accountability of the elites. But beyond that, its programme remains vague.Podemos certainly fascinates. Unlike\u00a0Syriza, it didn\u2019t even exist a few years ago. It stormed Spanish politics last May by gaining an unexpected 8%\u00a0of votes in the European\u00a0parliamentary elections. This\u00a0came as a surprise to many. In fact it was the result of a clever strategy put together by a small group of\u00a0Madrid leftwing intellectuals.This is how it happened: when the 2011 Indignados youth protests died down in Spain, a group of political scientists from the capital\u2019s Complutense university, including Iglesias, saw an opportunity. They built on the online networks for the Indignados and put into practice some of the political techniques they had learned while studying Gramsci and the Argentinian post-Marxist political theorist Ernesto Laclau, an influential advocate of political populism. Out of this was borne Podemos\u2019s central narrative: \u201cThe people versus la casta.\u201d \u201cThey understood the key was not to dwell on class consciousness,\u201d says political analyst Fernando Vallesp\u00edn, \u201cbut to frame the very perception of politics.\u201d It worked. Many Spaniards watching the eloquent Iglesias on TV or online started to\u00a0identify the \u201ccasta\u201d, the ruling class, as the source of their woes. One only needs to remember past headlines about Spain\u2019s spectacular economic success story in the early 2000s, when easy credit fed a construction bubble, to realise how much of a boom-to-bust phenomenon has weighed on the national psyche. One middle-aged Spaniard put if to me this way: \u201cWe discovered we weren\u2019t as good as we thought. We thought Spain had qualified to be at the heart of Europe, and all of a sudden, we were rejected to its lame periphery \u2026\u201dThere is an admirable romanticism to Podemos shaking up a sclerotic political scene. But behind its utopian energy there is more cold-blooded realpolitik than meets the eye. Podemos portrays itself as giving a voice to the ordinary citizens consulted on the internet or through hundreds of spontaneous assemblies called \u201ccircles\u201d. Yet once the online voting has happened, the overall message is decided by a 10-member coordination council, nominated by Iglesias. At its worst, Podemos could resemble something like Leninist-centralism-meets-the-digital-era.Explaining his communication strategy, Iglesias once pointed out how in 1917 Lenin \u201cdidn\u2019t talk to the Russians about \u2018dialectical materialism\u2019, he talked to them about \u2018bread and peace\u2019\u201d. The Podemos leader also believes that \u201cHeaven is not taken by consensus, it is taken by assault.\u201d Such statements have made it easy for critics to accuse Iglesias of authoritarian tendencies, influenced by outdated ideologies.Iglesias and his close circle of friends in the Podemos leadership have spent time in Venezuela and Bolivia in the last decade, some of them acting as advisers to regimes whose democratic credentials aren\u2019t exactly solid. Questions have been raised in the Spanish media about financial dealings from the regime of the late Venezuelan leader Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, whom Iglesias has expressed admiration for. Podemos has since\u00a0toned down its rhetoric about Bolivarian revolutions; it now claims to\u00a0want to mimic northern European social democrats instead.But the impression of ideological muddle endures. During the Maidan protests in Ukraine, Iglesias largely came down on the side of Putin\u2019s propaganda. And when Syriza\u00a0formed a coalition with the antisemitic, far-right Independent Greek\u00a0party, Iglesias defended it as \u201ca\u00a0programmatic choice\u201d.Podemos has successfully captured a mood of popular protest in Spain, but it is now aiming to structure itself as\u00a0a credible and reassuring political party.\u00a0It\u00a0claims to renew democracy, yet it knows complex issues cannot always be addressed via online petitions. It has the ambition of a mass movement but is run by a tight circle of\u00a0professors. It talks about hope but its\u00a0casta narrative is very Manichean.Some say the pragmatic transformation is already under way. They compare Pablo Iglesias to the young Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez, the former socialist prime minister who understood that his party needed to shed itself of radicalism in order to be elected in 1982. Spain, like Greece, is undergoing a generational shift. Diego Pacheco, a Podemos activist born in 1986 \u2013 the year Spain joined the European Community \u2013 speaks passionately about a quest for \u201cempowerment\u201d. \u201cPodemos is not about being anti-EU, but about finding a way to move beyond the system that emerged from the post-Franco transition that our parents were part of,\u201d he says.Spain\u2019s economic recovery will make\u00a0it harder for Podemos than Syriza\u00a0to win elections. Its main competitor, the Spanish Socialist party,\u00a0still has more strength than Pasok. The digital meeting place Podemos has built might also show its limits. After Greece, Spain\u00a0is likely to be the next country\u00a0entering uncharted\u00a0political waters in 2015, but it would be naive to think the electoral outcome will\u00a0be as clear cut.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Greece", "Syriza", "Europe", "Austerity", "Business"], "title": "Will Spain join the Greek revolution? Don\u2019t bet on it | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-01-19T16:03:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A former electrician appeared in a court in Spain on Monday accused of stealing one of the country\u2019s most important cultural treasures \u2013 a 12th-century manuscript described as Europe\u2019s first travel guide.In what was dubbed the theft of the century by Spanish media, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Fern\u00e1ndez Casti\u00f1eiras, prosecutors say, took the Codex Calixtinus from the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in northern Spain in July 2011.The 225-document includes travel advice for those following the Camino de Santiago, a pilgrimage that attracts hundreds of thousands each year, as well as sermons and homilies to Saint James.After hours of frantic searching turned up nothing, staff at the cathedral contacted police.The cathedral had five security cameras overseeing the archives area, but not one of them was directed at the safe where the medieval manuscript was kept. Facing mounting criticism about lax security, staff insisted the theft had been an inside job.The dean of the cathedral, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda D\u00edaz, told reporters: \u201cWhoever took it knew what it was, knew its incalculable value and knew how to get to it, or at least find out to how get to it.\u201d His remarks were backed by reports that the keys to the safe had still been dangling from the lock when staff noticed the codex missing.A year later, it was found in the garage of the cathedral\u2019s former electrician. The discovery put an end to speculation in Spanish media that the theft had been commissioned by an international art collector and that the illustrated manuscript had been smuggled out of the country.The codex was found \u201cin good condition\u201d, according to Spain\u2019s interior ministry. Police said they also found more than a \u20ac1m in the garage and other ancient books missing from the cathedral\u2019s archives.Casti\u00f1eiras had worked at the cathedral for more than 25 years before being made redundant in 2011. At the time of the codex theft, he had been suing cathedral authorities for wrongful dismissal.He now faces charges of theft and money laundering, with prosecutors calling for a 15-year jail term and a \u20ac300,000 fine. More than 60 witnesses, including senior clergy from the cathedral, are expected to be called during the trial.On Monday, Casti\u00f1eiras\u2019s lawyer, Carmen Ventoso, asked that the evidence gathered so far in the case be thrown out \u2013 including a confession by the former electrician and a video, recorded by cathedral\u2019s security camera, allegedly showing him cramming stacks of cash into his pockets. The case against Casti\u00f1eiras, she said, was full of \u201cmistakes\u201d and left him the victim of a \u201cGuant\u00e1namo-like process.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "Heritage", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Trial over theft of Codex Calixtinus begins in Spain"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-11T15:21:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government is considering legal action against HSBC after it emerged that its private bank in Switzerland helped its clients dodge tax authorities around the world. The HSBC files show 2,694 Spaniards held accounts in the bank\u2019s Swiss subsidiary, with savings totalling $2.3bn (\u00a31.5bn).On Tuesday Spain\u2019s finance minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said he had asked the government\u2019s legal counsel to carry out a \u201cstudy of the legal actions that can be taken against HSBC for its participation in carrying out fiscal fraud, laundering and other wrongful acts committed by Spanish residents\u201d. The conservative People\u2019s party minister\u2019s remarks were a departure from his initial reaction to the leaks published by the Guardian and dozens of other media outlets. On Monday, Montoro called the scandal \u201cold news\u201d, explaining that the list of Spaniards involved had been given to Spanish tax authorities in 2010, when the Socialists were in government. \u201cWe\u2019ve already taken action to address them.\u201d In 2010, tax authorities contacted more than 650 Spanish residents on the list who were suspected of tax evasion, offering them the chance to avoid inspection by voluntarily settling their debts. Spain\u2019s Bot\u00edn family, whose members head Santander bank, paid \u20ac200m (\u00a3150m) in back taxes to the Spanish government, ending an investigation for tax fraud. At the time, neither the Socialists nor the People\u2019s party moved to take action against HSBC.Montoro\u2019s initial dismissal of the subject contrasted with that of his political opponents. The anti-austerity party Podemos announced that it had asked the HSBC whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani to draw up a report on tackling tax evasion, while the Socialists demanded reforms to Spain\u2019s tax law to allow the names of tax evaders to be released publicly.In a year that will see municipal, regional and probably general elections take place across the country, Spain\u2019s politicians have been keen to show that they are actively addressing issues such as tax evasion, which ranks high among Spaniards\u2019 preoccupations.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "HSBC", "Banking", "European banks", "Banco Santander", "Financial sector", "World news"], "title": "Spain considers suing HSBC over 'fiscal fraud and laundering'"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:23:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If first impressions count, then the political force that wants to transform Spain in 2015 consists mainly of student types and self-conscious outsiders. That, at any rate, is the scene when you enter Podemos\u2019s crammed, disorderly office in Madrid\u2019s popular Lavapi\u00e9s district. Posters are being prepared for the movement\u2019s first big street demonstration, planned for 31 January. A young woman sitting in front of a computer says she has no job and decided to become a Podemos volunteer because \u201cif we don\u2019t start taking things into our hands, la casta will just\u00a0continue as before\u201d.This is the closest thing Spain has to Syriza, the radical leftwing party that just came to power in Greece. Only a year after its launch last January, Podemos (\u201cWe can\u201d) is riding high in opinion polls. General elections are due at the end of the year. Just like Syriza, Podemos has a charismatic leader, the pony-tailed 36-year-old professor of political science, Pablo Iglesias. Like Syriza, Podemos calls for an end to traditional politics and rolling back austerity. Its key target is la casta (\u201cthe caste\u201d), the dominant two-party system that has ruled Spain since democracy was restored in the late 1970s, after Franco\u2019s death.Opposite the Podemos office, there\u2019s a book shop run by some of its activists. Browsing through it feels like you\u2019ve stepped into a time-machine: there are collections of Lenin\u2019s works, and books on the Italian communist thinker Antonio Gramsci and the French 19th-century revolutionary Louise Michel.The more likely clue to Podemos\u2019s rise can be found on the television news: an\u00a0endless stream of revelations about corruption cases. Spain\u2019s macroeconomic situation may have improved, but that hasn\u2019t translated yet into improved living standards: youth unemployment still stands at a staggering 50%. Podemos taps into the despair over these numbers just as\u00a0Syriza has done in Greece. It offers new young faces and resorts to social media in its bid to modernise Spanish politics, calling for more social justice and democratic accountability of the elites. But beyond that, its programme remains vague.Podemos certainly fascinates. Unlike\u00a0Syriza, it didn\u2019t even exist a few years ago. It stormed Spanish politics last May by gaining an unexpected 8%\u00a0of votes in the European\u00a0parliamentary elections. This\u00a0came as a surprise to many. In fact it was the result of a clever strategy put together by a small group of\u00a0Madrid leftwing intellectuals.This is how it happened: when the 2011 Indignados youth protests died down in Spain, a group of political scientists from the capital\u2019s Complutense university, including Iglesias, saw an opportunity. They built on the online networks for the Indignados and put into practice some of the political techniques they had learned while studying Gramsci and the Argentinian post-Marxist political theorist Ernesto Laclau, an influential advocate of political populism. Out of this was borne Podemos\u2019s central narrative: \u201cThe people versus la casta.\u201d \u201cThey understood the key was not to dwell on class consciousness,\u201d says political analyst Fernando Vallesp\u00edn, \u201cbut to frame the very perception of politics.\u201d It worked. Many Spaniards watching the eloquent Iglesias on TV or online started to\u00a0identify the \u201ccasta\u201d, the ruling class, as the source of their woes. One only needs to remember past headlines about Spain\u2019s spectacular economic success story in the early 2000s, when easy credit fed a construction bubble, to realise how much of a boom-to-bust phenomenon has weighed on the national psyche. One middle-aged Spaniard put if to me this way: \u201cWe discovered we weren\u2019t as good as we thought. We thought Spain had qualified to be at the heart of Europe, and all of a sudden, we were rejected to its lame periphery \u2026\u201dThere is an admirable romanticism to Podemos shaking up a sclerotic political scene. But behind its utopian energy there is more cold-blooded realpolitik than meets the eye. Podemos portrays itself as giving a voice to the ordinary citizens consulted on the internet or through hundreds of spontaneous assemblies called \u201ccircles\u201d. Yet once the online voting has happened, the overall message is decided by a 10-member coordination council, nominated by Iglesias. At its worst, Podemos could resemble something like Leninist-centralism-meets-the-digital-era.Explaining his communication strategy, Iglesias once pointed out how in 1917 Lenin \u201cdidn\u2019t talk to the Russians about \u2018dialectical materialism\u2019, he talked to them about \u2018bread and peace\u2019\u201d. The Podemos leader also believes that \u201cHeaven is not taken by consensus, it is taken by assault.\u201d Such statements have made it easy for critics to accuse Iglesias of authoritarian tendencies, influenced by outdated ideologies.Iglesias and his close circle of friends in the Podemos leadership have spent time in Venezuela and Bolivia in the last decade, some of them acting as advisers to regimes whose democratic credentials aren\u2019t exactly solid. Questions have been raised in the Spanish media about financial dealings from the regime of the late Venezuelan leader Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, whom Iglesias has expressed admiration for. Podemos has since\u00a0toned down its rhetoric about Bolivarian revolutions; it now claims to\u00a0want to mimic northern European social democrats instead.But the impression of ideological muddle endures. During the Maidan protests in Ukraine, Iglesias largely came down on the side of Putin\u2019s propaganda. And when Syriza\u00a0formed a coalition with the antisemitic, far-right Independent Greek\u00a0party, Iglesias defended it as \u201ca\u00a0programmatic choice\u201d.Podemos has successfully captured a mood of popular protest in Spain, but it is now aiming to structure itself as\u00a0a credible and reassuring political party.\u00a0It\u00a0claims to renew democracy, yet it knows complex issues cannot always be addressed via online petitions. It has the ambition of a mass movement but is run by a tight circle of\u00a0professors. It talks about hope but its\u00a0casta narrative is very Manichean.Some say the pragmatic transformation is already under way. They compare Pablo Iglesias to the young Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez, the former socialist prime minister who understood that his party needed to shed itself of radicalism in order to be elected in 1982. Spain, like Greece, is undergoing a generational shift. Diego Pacheco, a Podemos activist born in 1986 \u2013 the year Spain joined the European Community \u2013 speaks passionately about a quest for \u201cempowerment\u201d. \u201cPodemos is not about being anti-EU, but about finding a way to move beyond the system that emerged from the post-Franco transition that our parents were part of,\u201d he says.Spain\u2019s economic recovery will make\u00a0it harder for Podemos than Syriza\u00a0to win elections. Its main competitor, the Spanish Socialist party,\u00a0still has more strength than Pasok. The digital meeting place Podemos has built might also show its limits. After Greece, Spain\u00a0is likely to be the next country\u00a0entering uncharted\u00a0political waters in 2015, but it would be naive to think the electoral outcome will\u00a0be as clear cut.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Greece", "Syriza", "Europe", "Austerity", "Business"], "title": "Will Spain join the Greek revolution? Don\u2019t bet on it | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-01-19T16:03:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A former electrician appeared in a court in Spain on Monday accused of stealing one of the country\u2019s most important cultural treasures \u2013 a 12th-century manuscript described as Europe\u2019s first travel guide.In what was dubbed the theft of the century by Spanish media, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Fern\u00e1ndez Casti\u00f1eiras, prosecutors say, took the Codex Calixtinus from the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in northern Spain in July 2011.The 225-document includes travel advice for those following the Camino de Santiago, a pilgrimage that attracts hundreds of thousands each year, as well as sermons and homilies to Saint James.After hours of frantic searching turned up nothing, staff at the cathedral contacted police.The cathedral had five security cameras overseeing the archives area, but not one of them was directed at the safe where the medieval manuscript was kept. Facing mounting criticism about lax security, staff insisted the theft had been an inside job.The dean of the cathedral, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda D\u00edaz, told reporters: \u201cWhoever took it knew what it was, knew its incalculable value and knew how to get to it, or at least find out to how get to it.\u201d His remarks were backed by reports that the keys to the safe had still been dangling from the lock when staff noticed the codex missing.A year later, it was found in the garage of the cathedral\u2019s former electrician. The discovery put an end to speculation in Spanish media that the theft had been commissioned by an international art collector and that the illustrated manuscript had been smuggled out of the country.The codex was found \u201cin good condition\u201d, according to Spain\u2019s interior ministry. Police said they also found more than a \u20ac1m in the garage and other ancient books missing from the cathedral\u2019s archives.Casti\u00f1eiras had worked at the cathedral for more than 25 years before being made redundant in 2011. At the time of the codex theft, he had been suing cathedral authorities for wrongful dismissal.He now faces charges of theft and money laundering, with prosecutors calling for a 15-year jail term and a \u20ac300,000 fine. More than 60 witnesses, including senior clergy from the cathedral, are expected to be called during the trial.On Monday, Casti\u00f1eiras\u2019s lawyer, Carmen Ventoso, asked that the evidence gathered so far in the case be thrown out \u2013 including a confession by the former electrician and a video, recorded by cathedral\u2019s security camera, allegedly showing him cramming stacks of cash into his pockets. The case against Casti\u00f1eiras, she said, was full of \u201cmistakes\u201d and left him the victim of a \u201cGuant\u00e1namo-like process.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "Heritage", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Trial over theft of Codex Calixtinus begins in Spain"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:53:33Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Two British ex-pats, including a former Olympic diver, have been found shot dead in their three-bedroomed home in Xal\u00f3 near Benidorm in south-east Spain.The retired couple, both aged 77 and named by Spanish police as Peter and Jean Tarsey, were discovered after friends who had lunch with them every Sunday raised the alarm.Peter Tarsey is said to have represented Britain as a diver at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics as well as competing in two Commonwealth Games, winning a bronze medal in 1958.Police found the couple on the sofa, each with various gunshot wounds from a small calibre weapon. \u201cSome of their friends became worried and called police to go look for them when they were not able to reach them,\u201d said a spokesman for the local Guardia Civil. Some reports claim they had been shot in the head.A postmortem examination is being carried out but the case is being treated as murder. The couple had two grown-up sons Alexei, said to live in London, and Sascha who lives in Palma de Mallorca.There were no signs of a break-in and while one theory was that it was a robbery that had gone wrong, there were conflicting reports as to whether anything was missing from the chalet.There were reports that a TV had been stolen and a computer was found in the swimming pool but also that the couple\u2019s valuables were still where they were kept in a safe.The couple were discovered at 4.15pm on Sunday. The case has been placed under \u201csumario secreto\u201d, meaning the police will not comment further at least until the postmortem has been carried out.Susan Keightley, a neighbour in Spain, is quoted on a number of media websites as saying the couple had been trying to sell their home in order to live nearer Sascha. They are believed to have put their home up for sale for \u20ac230,000 last February.Describing the \u201clovely couple\u201d, she said: \u201cThey had been burgled a couple of times, once at Christmas, about 10 years ago, and also before that one summer. But that was a long time ago and not something they were particularly worried about recently.\u201dShe added: \u201cThey put the house up for sale because they were hoping to move to Majorca to be nearer their son Sascha and their grandchildren.\u201dKeightley said Peter Tarsey usually went by his middle name David. \u201cHe had been an Olympic diver and a few years ago, we used to dive into their swimming pool from the garden wall.\u201cHe was an engineer back in the UK and had sold his business when they moved to Spain.\u201dJean Tarsey worked for local charities including one looking after abandoned dogs, said Keightley. \u201cThey have a little black and white mongrel dog called Domino who I believe was still in the house when the bodies were found.\u201dAccording to Joan Miquel Garc\u00e9s Font, the mayor of Xal\u00f3, the couple had lived in the area for about 18 years and were well known locally.He told the Spain Report website: \u201cAt first the Civil Guard thought it was domestic violence, but they told me this morning they had ruled out both domestic violence and suicide. They are looking for a third person as the attacker.\u201d\u201cThe local police told me [the Tarseys] ate lunch every Sunday with some English friends, who were waiting for them yesterday. When they didn\u2019t show up, the friends got worried and called the police.\u201cIt\u2019s a very strange feeling because nothing like this has ever happened here before. We all know each other, it\u2019s very strange.\u201dBoth of the sons have been informed of the incident. A minute\u2019s silence was held at the local town hall.Some 28% of the 2,700 permanent residents of Xal\u00f3 are British. ", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "Gun crime", "Europe"], "title": "Former British Olympic diver and his wife shot dead at their home in Spain"},{"date": "2015-02-17T15:33:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was a beautiful sight. The fairytale white dwellings of Estepa nestling against the hillside in the early morning light.Generally, the Andalusian landscape seemed even more arcadian in the soft light at the beginning and end of the day. But this idyllic setting masked the reality of another Spain.In the car park of our Estepa hotel a well-dressed and articulate young man asked us in Spanish for \u20ac10 ($11) for petrol to put into his car.He had ninos (children) he said. It was urgent.Suppressing our guilt \u2013 and hampered by our confusion over how to react to the numerous beggars we encountered in the country \u2013 my wife and I handed him some coins. Not enough for the petrol, but enough for a coffee.Grudgingly, he took it.We took a taxi to Marinaleda \u2013 a remote village some 12km from Estepa where the locals have created a socialist utopia in part as an antidote to the effects of la crisis \u2013 the economic downturn currently afflicting Spain.We were granted an audience with Juan Manuel S\u00e1nchez Gordillo \u2013 the iconic mayor who has led the move since the death of Franco to run the village democratically along idealistic and cooperative lines.He was smaller than I had imagined and slightly gaunt in appearance. We sat at a wooden round table in the mayoral office and discussed \u2013 as far as our limited Spanish would allow \u2013 his utopian village for about an hour.There were four of us with him: my wife and I, a French trade unionist and her partner, an academic.I was struck by Gordillo\u2019s expressive face and his counter-cultural appearance. Jeans. A short-sleeved shirt unbuttoned nearly to his waist. Leather and beaded bracelets on his wrists and a beaded necklace. A full beard. It conjured up in my mind images of various Latin American revolutionaries.A framed photograph of Che Guevara hung on the wall behind him.As he spoke, his eyes had a slightly bemused aspect tinged, I thought, with some sadness \u2013 or weariness.\u201cThey are after him,\u201d we were told later by an British expatriate living in the village, referring to the fact that he is being pursued by Spanish authorities over some direct action in which he and others took food from a supermarket and distributed it to the poor.\u201cHe\u2019s in his 60s now,\u201d she said. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk he\u2019ll go to jail. It must be a terrible worry for him. And of course he works very hard. I think all this has been getting him down.\u201dWe spoke to a couple of local teachers \u2013 one secondary, the other primary. We wanted to know how far the village\u2019s utopian ethos is reflected in the school curriculum.\u201cIt isn\u2019t,\u201d was their answer. \u201cThe school curriculum is centrally controlled at all levels of schooling and its content and approach is decreed by higher government authority.\u201dOne teacher didn\u2019t want to discuss the issue further. \u201cI am afraid to get involved in village politics,\u201d she said.\u201cI have a teaching job and I want to keep it. I have a mortgage. Jobs are hard to find in Spain.\u201dGuardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Spain"], "title": "Letter from Spain: weary warrior"},{"date": "2015-03-06T17:38:31Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has outstripped France and Italy to become the world\u2019s biggest wine exporter, exporting 22.8m hectolitres in 2014, a 22% rise on the previous year.However, because much of it was bulk sales with small margins, the Spanish wine industry\u2019s profits were down2.2%. France is now the biggest buyer of Spanish wines, importing and bottling \u2013 often as French wine \u2013 5.8m hectolitres in 2014,40% more than the previous year. A hectolitre is equivalent of 133.3 bottles.It is cheaper for the French to import the wine than to grow it themselves. The next biggest buyers after France were Germany, Portugal and Russia.The situation mirrors in many respects the Spain\u2019s olive oil industry. About 40% of Spanish production is exported in bulk to Italy, where it is rebottled and sold as estate bottled Italian olive oil.Selling wine in bulk is easy and cheap, but the margins are small and it perpetuates the image of Spain as a purveyor of plonk, whereas several regions produce wine that is among the best in the world.As with olive oil, it\u2019s a problem of marketing and perception. Most good Spanish wine is little known outside Spain or even the region where it is produced. Gerard Ventura, of the Jan\u00e9 Ventura bodega just south of Barcelona, says it is easier to find his wine in Berlin than in Barcelona where people continue to buy rioja even though Catalonia produces some of the finest reds in Europe.Rioja is practically the only wine region that non-Spaniards are familiar with although, like bordeaux, it suffers from over-production. Wine from the northern regions of Ribera del Duero and Navarra is less widely known largely because the bodegas (wineries) do little to market their wines outside Spain.Shortly after the second world warthe Torres winery began producing branded wines in order to circumvent the stifling rules governing denominaci\u00f3n de or\u00edgen and to put a stop to bulk sales Torres, which is best known for Vi\u00f1a Sol wine,posted a sales rise of 5% to \u20ac240m for 2014, of which 70% was from exported bottled, not bulk, wine. Miguel Torres, the managing director, says the future lies in higher quality and also organic wines, as the cheap and mid-range markets are already saturated. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Wine", "Business", "France", "Europe", "Life and style", "World news"], "title": "Spain becomes world's biggest wine exporter in 2014"},{"date": "2015-02-25T09:52:42Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Drunk tourists staggering down Spanish streets at night might need to pay more attention this summer. In a crackdown on dangerous walking, Spain\u2019s Directorate General of Traffic plans to introduce breathalyser tests for pedestrians. They also suggest introducing an off-road speed limit for joggers. The proposals, buried among other road safety suggestions, would give pedestrians responsibilities akin to drivers \u2013 and ought to inspire other new laws in their footsteps.Might we see other similar laws follow on their heels? Shortsighted people could be charged for leaving the house without their glasses, for instance. Walking and texting (and the associated crime of \u201cmoving like a robot\u201d, as one Australian study described the result) might see you fined. You could get a ticket for wearing any clothing that is eye-catching enough to distract drivers \u2013 something Rome already gamely tried to introduce in its aborted 2008 miniskirt ban.To ensure a properly monitored quality of walking, meanwhile, pedestrians could be required to undergo a full MOT, with anyone whose physical equipment isn\u2019t in suitable condition banned from leaving the house until essential repairs are made. Taking their cue from motorways, the pavements of major streets could be barred to parents pushing buggies, because they\u2019re just too slow.A closer look at the small print of Spain\u2019s plan (itself heavily criticised by other sectors of Spain\u2019s government) reveals that it isn\u2019t going that far just yet. It can\u2019t do, because there\u2019s still no official level of alcohol intake in Spain after which you\u2019re banned from using your legs. What the plan does suggest is that when pedestrians are charged with an already existing legal infraction \u2013 such as jaywalking \u2013 or involved in a car accident, then they could be given a drug or alcohol test. Again, it\u2019s not entirely clear what the authorities would do with this information: a high reading for either test could lead to a reckless jaywalker getting a stiffer sentence, perhaps.Looked at this way, the plan comes across as a little more, well, sober. If pedestrians (and cyclists, for that matter) are capable of causing harm through neglect, then perhaps they should indeed be held to the same standards as motorists \u2013 not least for their own preservation.It might seem obvious that drunk pedestrians get up to more risky behaviour that sober ones, but some experts in the field have gone to the trouble of backing up that assumption empirically. A 2011 study published in the evocatively named Journal of Trauma found that 55% of pedestrians who had consumed alcohol ignored designated crosswalks, compared to 22% of sober ones. When things went wrong, the drinkers also did themselves (and possibly others) far more damage: on average, they stayed two days longer in hospital than sober accident victims, with injuries that were typically almost twice as severe. If there\u2019s a legal nudge that could curb reckless behaviour, it might not be such a bad thing.But it\u2019s still quite a leap from what is effectively a hunch \u2013 that legal curbs on drunks crossing the street could actually improve road safety \u2013 to the specific change that Spain\u2019s Directorate of Traffic is proposing. If the plan goes ahead, pedestrians would be reclassified, just like drivers, as \u201cusers of the road\u201d.This suggests an equality of responsibility between pedestrian and drivers that just doesn\u2019t bear up. At the risk of stating the obvious, pedestrians are not as closely controlled as drivers because they are not, for the most part, encased within a motor-propelled steel-and-glass bone-cruncher. Classifying pedestrians as road users is also disingenuous, unless being obliged to face an unavoidable gauntlet of cars whenever you need to cross the street is going to be deemed as \u201cuse\u201d. If pedestrians really were \u201cusers of the road\u201d on the same footing as motor vehicles, our roads would soon be not grey but red.In fact, Spain\u2019s plans can be read as part of a long history of attempting to shift responsibility away from drivers on to those they hit. As this article by Sarah Goodyear points out, prior to the mid 1920s it was taken pretty much as a given that vehicles should always take responsibility for road accidents. It was only intense lobbying by the car industry that saw jaywalking classified as a US offence. This lobbying was in itself a fight-back against public campaigns to cut accidents by fitting cars with compulsory speed limiters. The drive to normalise and shift blame for the high road death and injury toll on to the un-armoured pedestrian was thus a turf war, one powered as much by the bottom lines of car companies as by safety concerns.Trying to overturn this bias towards victim-blaming is an ongoing and arduous task. Proposed laws like Spain\u2019s that attempt to spread responsibility away from cars would only make things worse, by releasing the pressure to create, say, lower urban speed limits and better signage. Though if they find a way to imprison people who text while strolling, they might not be such a bad thing entirely.", "tags": ["Cities", "Spain", "Alcohol", "Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Politics", "Europe", "Cycling", "World news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Spain wants to ban drunk walking. What next for pedestrians?"},{"date": "2015-02-11T15:21:48Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Spanish government is considering legal action against HSBC after it emerged that its private bank in Switzerland helped its clients dodge tax authorities around the world. The HSBC files show 2,694 Spaniards held accounts in the bank\u2019s Swiss subsidiary, with savings totalling $2.3bn (\u00a31.5bn).On Tuesday Spain\u2019s finance minister, Crist\u00f3bal Montoro, said he had asked the government\u2019s legal counsel to carry out a \u201cstudy of the legal actions that can be taken against HSBC for its participation in carrying out fiscal fraud, laundering and other wrongful acts committed by Spanish residents\u201d. The conservative People\u2019s party minister\u2019s remarks were a departure from his initial reaction to the leaks published by the Guardian and dozens of other media outlets. On Monday, Montoro called the scandal \u201cold news\u201d, explaining that the list of Spaniards involved had been given to Spanish tax authorities in 2010, when the Socialists were in government. \u201cWe\u2019ve already taken action to address them.\u201d In 2010, tax authorities contacted more than 650 Spanish residents on the list who were suspected of tax evasion, offering them the chance to avoid inspection by voluntarily settling their debts. Spain\u2019s Bot\u00edn family, whose members head Santander bank, paid \u20ac200m (\u00a3150m) in back taxes to the Spanish government, ending an investigation for tax fraud. At the time, neither the Socialists nor the People\u2019s party moved to take action against HSBC.Montoro\u2019s initial dismissal of the subject contrasted with that of his political opponents. The anti-austerity party Podemos announced that it had asked the HSBC whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani to draw up a report on tackling tax evasion, while the Socialists demanded reforms to Spain\u2019s tax law to allow the names of tax evaders to be released publicly.In a year that will see municipal, regional and probably general elections take place across the country, Spain\u2019s politicians have been keen to show that they are actively addressing issues such as tax evasion, which ranks high among Spaniards\u2019 preoccupations.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "HSBC", "Banking", "European banks", "Banco Santander", "Financial sector", "World news"], "title": "Spain considers suing HSBC over 'fiscal fraud and laundering'"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:23:45Z", "country": "spain", "content": "If first impressions count, then the political force that wants to transform Spain in 2015 consists mainly of student types and self-conscious outsiders. That, at any rate, is the scene when you enter Podemos\u2019s crammed, disorderly office in Madrid\u2019s popular Lavapi\u00e9s district. Posters are being prepared for the movement\u2019s first big street demonstration, planned for 31 January. A young woman sitting in front of a computer says she has no job and decided to become a Podemos volunteer because \u201cif we don\u2019t start taking things into our hands, la casta will just\u00a0continue as before\u201d.This is the closest thing Spain has to Syriza, the radical leftwing party that just came to power in Greece. Only a year after its launch last January, Podemos (\u201cWe can\u201d) is riding high in opinion polls. General elections are due at the end of the year. Just like Syriza, Podemos has a charismatic leader, the pony-tailed 36-year-old professor of political science, Pablo Iglesias. Like Syriza, Podemos calls for an end to traditional politics and rolling back austerity. Its key target is la casta (\u201cthe caste\u201d), the dominant two-party system that has ruled Spain since democracy was restored in the late 1970s, after Franco\u2019s death.Opposite the Podemos office, there\u2019s a book shop run by some of its activists. Browsing through it feels like you\u2019ve stepped into a time-machine: there are collections of Lenin\u2019s works, and books on the Italian communist thinker Antonio Gramsci and the French 19th-century revolutionary Louise Michel.The more likely clue to Podemos\u2019s rise can be found on the television news: an\u00a0endless stream of revelations about corruption cases. Spain\u2019s macroeconomic situation may have improved, but that hasn\u2019t translated yet into improved living standards: youth unemployment still stands at a staggering 50%. Podemos taps into the despair over these numbers just as\u00a0Syriza has done in Greece. It offers new young faces and resorts to social media in its bid to modernise Spanish politics, calling for more social justice and democratic accountability of the elites. But beyond that, its programme remains vague.Podemos certainly fascinates. Unlike\u00a0Syriza, it didn\u2019t even exist a few years ago. It stormed Spanish politics last May by gaining an unexpected 8%\u00a0of votes in the European\u00a0parliamentary elections. This\u00a0came as a surprise to many. In fact it was the result of a clever strategy put together by a small group of\u00a0Madrid leftwing intellectuals.This is how it happened: when the 2011 Indignados youth protests died down in Spain, a group of political scientists from the capital\u2019s Complutense university, including Iglesias, saw an opportunity. They built on the online networks for the Indignados and put into practice some of the political techniques they had learned while studying Gramsci and the Argentinian post-Marxist political theorist Ernesto Laclau, an influential advocate of political populism. Out of this was borne Podemos\u2019s central narrative: \u201cThe people versus la casta.\u201d \u201cThey understood the key was not to dwell on class consciousness,\u201d says political analyst Fernando Vallesp\u00edn, \u201cbut to frame the very perception of politics.\u201d It worked. Many Spaniards watching the eloquent Iglesias on TV or online started to\u00a0identify the \u201ccasta\u201d, the ruling class, as the source of their woes. One only needs to remember past headlines about Spain\u2019s spectacular economic success story in the early 2000s, when easy credit fed a construction bubble, to realise how much of a boom-to-bust phenomenon has weighed on the national psyche. One middle-aged Spaniard put if to me this way: \u201cWe discovered we weren\u2019t as good as we thought. We thought Spain had qualified to be at the heart of Europe, and all of a sudden, we were rejected to its lame periphery \u2026\u201dThere is an admirable romanticism to Podemos shaking up a sclerotic political scene. But behind its utopian energy there is more cold-blooded realpolitik than meets the eye. Podemos portrays itself as giving a voice to the ordinary citizens consulted on the internet or through hundreds of spontaneous assemblies called \u201ccircles\u201d. Yet once the online voting has happened, the overall message is decided by a 10-member coordination council, nominated by Iglesias. At its worst, Podemos could resemble something like Leninist-centralism-meets-the-digital-era.Explaining his communication strategy, Iglesias once pointed out how in 1917 Lenin \u201cdidn\u2019t talk to the Russians about \u2018dialectical materialism\u2019, he talked to them about \u2018bread and peace\u2019\u201d. The Podemos leader also believes that \u201cHeaven is not taken by consensus, it is taken by assault.\u201d Such statements have made it easy for critics to accuse Iglesias of authoritarian tendencies, influenced by outdated ideologies.Iglesias and his close circle of friends in the Podemos leadership have spent time in Venezuela and Bolivia in the last decade, some of them acting as advisers to regimes whose democratic credentials aren\u2019t exactly solid. Questions have been raised in the Spanish media about financial dealings from the regime of the late Venezuelan leader Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, whom Iglesias has expressed admiration for. Podemos has since\u00a0toned down its rhetoric about Bolivarian revolutions; it now claims to\u00a0want to mimic northern European social democrats instead.But the impression of ideological muddle endures. During the Maidan protests in Ukraine, Iglesias largely came down on the side of Putin\u2019s propaganda. And when Syriza\u00a0formed a coalition with the antisemitic, far-right Independent Greek\u00a0party, Iglesias defended it as \u201ca\u00a0programmatic choice\u201d.Podemos has successfully captured a mood of popular protest in Spain, but it is now aiming to structure itself as\u00a0a credible and reassuring political party.\u00a0It\u00a0claims to renew democracy, yet it knows complex issues cannot always be addressed via online petitions. It has the ambition of a mass movement but is run by a tight circle of\u00a0professors. It talks about hope but its\u00a0casta narrative is very Manichean.Some say the pragmatic transformation is already under way. They compare Pablo Iglesias to the young Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez, the former socialist prime minister who understood that his party needed to shed itself of radicalism in order to be elected in 1982. Spain, like Greece, is undergoing a generational shift. Diego Pacheco, a Podemos activist born in 1986 \u2013 the year Spain joined the European Community \u2013 speaks passionately about a quest for \u201cempowerment\u201d. \u201cPodemos is not about being anti-EU, but about finding a way to move beyond the system that emerged from the post-Franco transition that our parents were part of,\u201d he says.Spain\u2019s economic recovery will make\u00a0it harder for Podemos than Syriza\u00a0to win elections. Its main competitor, the Spanish Socialist party,\u00a0still has more strength than Pasok. The digital meeting place Podemos has built might also show its limits. After Greece, Spain\u00a0is likely to be the next country\u00a0entering uncharted\u00a0political waters in 2015, but it would be naive to think the electoral outcome will\u00a0be as clear cut.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Greece", "Syriza", "Europe", "Austerity", "Business"], "title": "Will Spain join the Greek revolution? Don\u2019t bet on it | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-01-19T16:03:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A former electrician appeared in a court in Spain on Monday accused of stealing one of the country\u2019s most important cultural treasures \u2013 a 12th-century manuscript described as Europe\u2019s first travel guide.In what was dubbed the theft of the century by Spanish media, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Fern\u00e1ndez Casti\u00f1eiras, prosecutors say, took the Codex Calixtinus from the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in northern Spain in July 2011.The 225-document includes travel advice for those following the Camino de Santiago, a pilgrimage that attracts hundreds of thousands each year, as well as sermons and homilies to Saint James.After hours of frantic searching turned up nothing, staff at the cathedral contacted police.The cathedral had five security cameras overseeing the archives area, but not one of them was directed at the safe where the medieval manuscript was kept. Facing mounting criticism about lax security, staff insisted the theft had been an inside job.The dean of the cathedral, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda D\u00edaz, told reporters: \u201cWhoever took it knew what it was, knew its incalculable value and knew how to get to it, or at least find out to how get to it.\u201d His remarks were backed by reports that the keys to the safe had still been dangling from the lock when staff noticed the codex missing.A year later, it was found in the garage of the cathedral\u2019s former electrician. The discovery put an end to speculation in Spanish media that the theft had been commissioned by an international art collector and that the illustrated manuscript had been smuggled out of the country.The codex was found \u201cin good condition\u201d, according to Spain\u2019s interior ministry. Police said they also found more than a \u20ac1m in the garage and other ancient books missing from the cathedral\u2019s archives.Casti\u00f1eiras had worked at the cathedral for more than 25 years before being made redundant in 2011. At the time of the codex theft, he had been suing cathedral authorities for wrongful dismissal.He now faces charges of theft and money laundering, with prosecutors calling for a 15-year jail term and a \u20ac300,000 fine. More than 60 witnesses, including senior clergy from the cathedral, are expected to be called during the trial.On Monday, Casti\u00f1eiras\u2019s lawyer, Carmen Ventoso, asked that the evidence gathered so far in the case be thrown out \u2013 including a confession by the former electrician and a video, recorded by cathedral\u2019s security camera, allegedly showing him cramming stacks of cash into his pockets. The case against Casti\u00f1eiras, she said, was full of \u201cmistakes\u201d and left him the victim of a \u201cGuant\u00e1namo-like process.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "Heritage", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Trial over theft of Codex Calixtinus begins in Spain"},{"date": "2015-03-30T12:53:33Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Two British ex-pats, including a former Olympic diver, have been found shot dead in their three-bedroomed home in Xal\u00f3 near Benidorm in south-east Spain.The retired couple, both aged 77 and named by Spanish police as Peter and Jean Tarsey, were discovered after friends who had lunch with them every Sunday raised the alarm.Peter Tarsey is said to have represented Britain as a diver at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics as well as competing in two Commonwealth Games, winning a bronze medal in 1958.Police found the couple on the sofa, each with various gunshot wounds from a small calibre weapon. \u201cSome of their friends became worried and called police to go look for them when they were not able to reach them,\u201d said a spokesman for the local Guardia Civil. Some reports claim they had been shot in the head.A postmortem examination is being carried out but the case is being treated as murder. The couple had two grown-up sons Alexei, said to live in London, and Sascha who lives in Palma de Mallorca.There were no signs of a break-in and while one theory was that it was a robbery that had gone wrong, there were conflicting reports as to whether anything was missing from the chalet.There were reports that a TV had been stolen and a computer was found in the swimming pool but also that the couple\u2019s valuables were still where they were kept in a safe.The couple were discovered at 4.15pm on Sunday. The case has been placed under \u201csumario secreto\u201d, meaning the police will not comment further at least until the postmortem has been carried out.Susan Keightley, a neighbour in Spain, is quoted on a number of media websites as saying the couple had been trying to sell their home in order to live nearer Sascha. They are believed to have put their home up for sale for \u20ac230,000 last February.Describing the \u201clovely couple\u201d, she said: \u201cThey had been burgled a couple of times, once at Christmas, about 10 years ago, and also before that one summer. But that was a long time ago and not something they were particularly worried about recently.\u201dShe added: \u201cThey put the house up for sale because they were hoping to move to Majorca to be nearer their son Sascha and their grandchildren.\u201dKeightley said Peter Tarsey usually went by his middle name David. \u201cHe had been an Olympic diver and a few years ago, we used to dive into their swimming pool from the garden wall.\u201cHe was an engineer back in the UK and had sold his business when they moved to Spain.\u201dJean Tarsey worked for local charities including one looking after abandoned dogs, said Keightley. \u201cThey have a little black and white mongrel dog called Domino who I believe was still in the house when the bodies were found.\u201dAccording to Joan Miquel Garc\u00e9s Font, the mayor of Xal\u00f3, the couple had lived in the area for about 18 years and were well known locally.He told the Spain Report website: \u201cAt first the Civil Guard thought it was domestic violence, but they told me this morning they had ruled out both domestic violence and suicide. They are looking for a third person as the attacker.\u201d\u201cThe local police told me [the Tarseys] ate lunch every Sunday with some English friends, who were waiting for them yesterday. When they didn\u2019t show up, the friends got worried and called the police.\u201cIt\u2019s a very strange feeling because nothing like this has ever happened here before. We all know each other, it\u2019s very strange.\u201dBoth of the sons have been informed of the incident. A minute\u2019s silence was held at the local town hall.Some 28% of the 2,700 permanent residents of Xal\u00f3 are British. ", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "Gun crime", "Europe"], "title": "Former British Olympic diver and his wife shot dead at their home in Spain"},{"date": "2015-03-17T18:39:54Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The Costa del Sol in southern Spain has always been a popular destination for Brits, though not just for its sandy beaches and colourful cocktail bars. Nicknamed the Costa del Crime since the 1970s, the region has become somewhat of a haven for UK criminals, from the Great Train Robber Charlie Wilson \u2013 who was shot dead in Marbella in 1990 \u2013 to the gangster king Ronnie Knight and Kray twins associate Freddie Foreman.With a convicted killer, a rapist and several drug traffickers on the latest list of the most wanted British fugitives in Spain \u2013 released by the National Crime Agency (NCA) and Crimestoppers on Tuesday \u2013 authorities are trying to change this unsavoury part of Spain\u2019s image. Related: Spanish police: our country is no longer a safe place for British criminals According to Inspector Olga Lizana, head of the Spanish police\u2019s fugitives unit, officers in Spain and the UK are working closely to share intelligence to track down some of Britain\u2019s flashiest criminals on the run in Spain.\u201cThis is not a good place for them to come any more,\u201d Lizana said in a statement at M\u00e1laga\u2019s police headquarters. \u201cThis is not a safe place for criminals any more. I think we are doing a great job with the British authorities. They have to be aware we are working together.\u201dThe joint initiative by the NCA, Crimestoppers and the Spanish authorities \u2013 named Operation Capture \u2013 was launched in 2006. It targets suspects thought to be hiding in Spain, with measures including giving out leaflets and beer mats that feature hotline numbers to expat bars.It has seen 65 of 86 British fugitives caught in Spain \u2013 including 38-year-old cocaine smuggler Christopher Mealey, who was arrested in Marbella in 2014 while walking along a popular beachfront tourist location. Mark Lilley \u2013 AKA \u201cFatboy\u201d, \u201cMandy\u201d and \u201cBig Vern\u201d \u2013 a 41-year-old drug dealer from Merseyside, was arrested in 2013 after more than 12 years on the run.In scenes reminiscent of the film Sexy Beast, footage of Lilley\u2019s arrest shows police scaling the front gates of his villa in Alhaur\u00edn de la Torre, near M\u00e1laga \u2013 complete with barking dogs in the background and a helicopter hovering overhead. Two months later, Andrew Moran, 31, a cannabis dealer, was captured in a similarly dramatic fashion at the poolside of his villa in Calpe, near Benidorm. Videos of the arrest show a previously sunbathing Moran trying to make an unsuccessful escape by vaulting over a garden wall.The authorities put Spain\u2019s popularity among British criminals down to its warmer climate as well as its prime location for drug trades with north Africa and South America. Until the late 80s, the country\u2019s lack of an extradition treaty with the UK also made it easy for criminals to cut ties with Britain. But with the introduction of pan-EU extradition, all that has changed. All 10 of Britain\u2019s most wanted fugitives on this latest list are the subject of European arrest warrants.They include Shane Walford, 38, who is wanted for the manslaughter of an off-duty firefighter while on leave from the army; Mohammed Jahangir Alam, 32, who was sentenced to 14 years for rape and sexual assault; and Jayson McDonald, 37, who is wanted by the Metropolitan police on suspicion of conspiracies to import and supply heroin and cocaine. Last week, an operation to arrest McDonald saw more than a dozen armed officers along with detectives from the Met carry out a dawn raid on a luxury villa in Co\u00edn, near M\u00e1laga. McDonald was not found. Related: As police arrest British fugitives in Spain, are the days of the Costa del Crime numbered? Hank Cole, head of international operations for the NCA, said that Operation Capture has been successful in sending fugitives a strong message. \u201cLast year, 15 million Brits went to Spain on holiday, there\u2019s around 350,000 Brits who currently live in Spain, and probably about a million who have some property there. There are some sizeable English-speaking communities in Spain, with British restaurants that even serve full English breakfasts, making them good places to hide,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cBut our relationship with the Spanish authorities has gone from strength to strength. The Spanish are more interested in the campaign now than they were right at the beginning. These criminals, whilst they\u2019re wanted by the UK legal authorities, continue to pose a threat to Spanish nationals and to the Spanish infrastructure. They don\u2019t want British paedophiles or murderers or drug traffickers in Spain, so they\u2019re more than happy to help us.\u201dCole said that Capture and other less high-profile active investigations resulted in the sending 54 Brits back to the UK last year. \u201cThere is a big British, honest, legitimate community in Spain that we get information from. Crimestoppers operate confidential helplines and websites people can submit information anonymously to, which is really helpful. Some of the people that give us intelligence may be criminals in their own right.\u201cEventually the pressure gets to people. In some cases we haven\u2019t had to actually go and dig people out of their houses and flats; they just give themselves up because they can\u2019t be bothered to run. Stephen Blundell, a drug trafficker, handed himself in two weeks ago in Tenerife.\u201d", "tags": ["Spain", "UK news", "Crime", "Europe", "World news", "Drugs"], "title": "Arraigned in Spain: UK police join forces with Spanish to catch Britons on run"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-05-25T22:03:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s conservative prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has expressed his disappointment after the country\u2019s indignados performed strongly in elections in two big cities. \u201cEvidently the results weren\u2019t those that we would have liked to have,\u201d said Rajoy in his first remarks since Sunday\u2019s elections. While his People\u2019s party received the most votes overall, the party suffered its worst electoral result in more than two decades. \u201cThe victory of the PP is unquestionable,\u201d added Rajoy, \u201cbut it is also evident that we didn\u2019t reach the majorities that the citizens trusted us with four years ago.\u201d The party lost about 2.5 million votes compared with the previous local elections in 2011.A string of corruption scandals have hurt the party, he said. \u201cGoverning in a crisis as tough as what we have lived through wasn\u2019t easy or gratifying. But the PP did it,\u201d he said.With general elections due at the end of the year, he sought to address head-on the criticisms of his leadership that have surfaced with the poor election showing. \u201cI\u2019ve spent many years in this party and I\u2019m very comfortable and calm. I don\u2019t plan on making any changes to the government or to the party,\u201d he said. Instead, he said, the party would change its approach to voters. \u201cWe need to be closer to Spaniards and communicate more with them.\u201dWhile he appealed for the most voted party in each region to govern \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s what the majority of Spaniards wants,\u201d he argued \u2013 he said the PP would be open to coalitions. \u201cOur philosophy will be to offer alliances that are transparent and stable.\u201d On Monday, analysts said that coalitions between leftist parties could see the PP ousted from power in as many as half a dozen regions. Rajoy\u2019s remarks came as the indignados continue to celebrate their victory in Barcelona and a strong showing in Madrid. One of the day\u2019s most tweeted photos showed Barcelona\u2019s mayor-elect, Ada Colau, being hauled away by police as she and other housing activists occupied a bank in 2013 to demand that the bank negotiate with a man who was unable to make his mortgage payments. \u201cThe mayor of Barcelona. Congratulations,\u201d read the accompanying tweet. Earlier on Monday, Colau announced that she would begin reaching out to political parties and associations in Barcelona, such as the pro-independence Catalan National Assembly and labour unions. \u201cI want to be the mayor to all 73 neighbourhoods of this city,\u201d she said. \u201cThe fight against precariousness, the fight against corruption, these are things that cannot wait.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mariano Rajoy", "Spain", "Catalonia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mariano Rajoy disappointed by indignados' election success in Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-05-25T22:03:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s conservative prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has expressed his disappointment after the country\u2019s indignados performed strongly in elections in two big cities. \u201cEvidently the results weren\u2019t those that we would have liked to have,\u201d said Rajoy in his first remarks since Sunday\u2019s elections. While his People\u2019s party received the most votes overall, the party suffered its worst electoral result in more than two decades. \u201cThe victory of the PP is unquestionable,\u201d added Rajoy, \u201cbut it is also evident that we didn\u2019t reach the majorities that the citizens trusted us with four years ago.\u201d The party lost about 2.5 million votes compared with the previous local elections in 2011.A string of corruption scandals have hurt the party, he said. \u201cGoverning in a crisis as tough as what we have lived through wasn\u2019t easy or gratifying. But the PP did it,\u201d he said.With general elections due at the end of the year, he sought to address head-on the criticisms of his leadership that have surfaced with the poor election showing. \u201cI\u2019ve spent many years in this party and I\u2019m very comfortable and calm. I don\u2019t plan on making any changes to the government or to the party,\u201d he said. Instead, he said, the party would change its approach to voters. \u201cWe need to be closer to Spaniards and communicate more with them.\u201dWhile he appealed for the most voted party in each region to govern \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s what the majority of Spaniards wants,\u201d he argued \u2013 he said the PP would be open to coalitions. \u201cOur philosophy will be to offer alliances that are transparent and stable.\u201d On Monday, analysts said that coalitions between leftist parties could see the PP ousted from power in as many as half a dozen regions. Rajoy\u2019s remarks came as the indignados continue to celebrate their victory in Barcelona and a strong showing in Madrid. One of the day\u2019s most tweeted photos showed Barcelona\u2019s mayor-elect, Ada Colau, being hauled away by police as she and other housing activists occupied a bank in 2013 to demand that the bank negotiate with a man who was unable to make his mortgage payments. \u201cThe mayor of Barcelona. Congratulations,\u201d read the accompanying tweet. Earlier on Monday, Colau announced that she would begin reaching out to political parties and associations in Barcelona, such as the pro-independence Catalan National Assembly and labour unions. \u201cI want to be the mayor to all 73 neighbourhoods of this city,\u201d she said. \u201cThe fight against precariousness, the fight against corruption, these are things that cannot wait.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mariano Rajoy", "Spain", "Catalonia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mariano Rajoy disappointed by indignados' election success in Spain"},{"date": "2015-05-02T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My girlfriend can\u2019t say water in Spanish. Well, she can say agua, obviously, but no waiter ever understands her. Though I try hard not to snigger, I do. It\u2019s really not very kind.But in north-west Spain it turns out I can\u2019t say wine. Specifically, I can\u2019t say verdejo, the white grape variety that I love and that I\u2019m here to find out more about. Is that sniggering I can hear?I learned Spanish when I lived in Cuba, mangled it on holidays in Andaluc\u00eda, then confused myself further by moving to Catalan-speaking Barcelona. Now I was heading to Valladolid, 200km north of Madrid, the biggest city in the region of Castilla y Le\u00f3n and reckoned to be where the purest form of Spanish is spoken.I walked into a bar and asked for a verdejo. The barman looked blank and I tried again. This time he actually winced. In desperation I tried what sounded to me like a comedy caricature of Spanish, rasping out the \u201cj\u201d sound like a heavy smoker clearing their throat. That did the trick.This wine area is on a 700m-high plateau, where the cold nights mean there is an acidity in the grapesVerdejo comes from the area around the small town of Rueda, south of Valladolid, and just 10 years ago was barely known outside this part of Spain. Now it\u2019s hugely popular across the country and is sold in restaurants and supermarkets in the UK (Morrisons has just started stocking it). Verdejo is light but full-bodied and aromatic, and a glass/bottle goes down dangerously quickly. I often compare it to a New Zealand sauvignon blanc, although it\u2019s not as gooseberry-fruity. A bottle starts at around \u20ac3 in Spain (\u20ac8 gets you something really good) and well under \u00a310 in the UK.The towns, villages and bodegas of the Rueda area lie on a plateau about 700 metres above sea level, so while summers are dry and hot, temperatures fall steeply at night, meaning there\u2019s an acidity in the grape.Traditionally every house had a cellar, a bodega, carved out of the gravelly soil below grandma\u2019s bed, where wine was made and stored. Few of these are used today, but new commercial bodegas above ground are multiplying rapidly and wine tourism is booming. Most of the wineries welcome visitors (make a reservation) and there\u2019s a Ruta del Vino de Rueda with downloadable maps and listings.On a hill above Rueda town, the futuristic glass-and-concrete winery of Finca Montepedroso is a great example of this new breed. Its floor-to-ceiling windows have spectacular views over the vineyard and beyond, and the fact that this winery\u2019s oenologist has studied in South Africa and New Zealand shows how ambitious some verdejo winemakers are to realise the grape\u2019s potential.French-owned Belondradre y Lurton is very distinctive. Again, the architecture is spectacular \u2013 its new building curves to take in the panorama. But it is its way of making wine that makes it stand out from the crowd: it leaves the wine to ferment in oak barrels for months, rather than using steel tanks and bottling it young. That helps explain the hefty price tag, around \u20ac26. Winemaker Marta Baquerizo Mesonero-Romanos patiently explained the complexities of its wine to a man with a \u20ac6 palate.Marta\u2019s taste in food was a little more affordable. She sent me off for a great dish of chickpeas and octopus at La Atrevida (Calle Tom\u00e1s Bay\u00f3n), a tiny bar in the nearby village of La Seca.This land was fought over for centuries by the kings of Castile and Aragon, and the countryside is scattered with medieval castles. Castillo de La Mota in Medina del Campo is fascinating, particularly the imposing tower from which Cesare Borgia escaped in 1506, by presumably suitably machiavellian means. And closer to Valladolid is Castillo de Fuensalda\u00f1a (book ahead on +34 983 42 71 74) which looks like it might have been designed and built by Lego.Over a few days I visited half a dozen bodegas, from the very traditional Bodegas de Alberto \u2013 on a site where wine was produced by 17th-century Dominican monks and there\u2019s a kilometre-long series of cellars to explore \u2013 to the very modern Jos\u00e9 Pariente run by a mother and daughter team, who store the wines in giant concrete eggs.Once the capital of Spain, Valladolid proved a surprisingly charming base. The tapas were fantastic, particularly at Los Zagales (Calle de la Pasi\u00f3n 13) and El Corcho (Calle Correos 2). But the city\u2019s culinary claim to fame is lechazo, suckling lamb. My \u20ac19 serving at Mes\u00f3n Arandino (Calle Embajadores 56) was just as tender and tasty as its more famous piggy cousin.It\u2019s a lovely city to explore. Miguel de Cervantes lived here for a few years, and his house on Calle del Rastro (\u20ac3, free Saturday afternoon and Sunday) is open to the public. Christopher Columbus died in Valladolid, and Casa Museo de Col\u00f3n, on Calle Col\u00f3n, can also be visited (\u20ac2).I never learnt to pronounce verdejo to the satisfaction of the barmen of Castilla y Le\u00f3n \u2013 but thankfully their compa\u00f1eros back in Barcelona are pretty used to interpreting tourists\u2019 mangled efforts in Spanish. Verdejo, you misheard it here first...\u2022 Accommodation in Valladolid was provided by Hotel Silken Juan de Austria (doubles from \u20ac60, +34 983 457475, hoteles-silken.com). Valladolid is about an hour from Madrid by train", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Wine holidays", "Food and drink", "Wine", "Spanish food and drink", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "On the verdejo wine trail in central Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-05-25T22:03:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s conservative prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has expressed his disappointment after the country\u2019s indignados performed strongly in elections in two big cities. \u201cEvidently the results weren\u2019t those that we would have liked to have,\u201d said Rajoy in his first remarks since Sunday\u2019s elections. While his People\u2019s party received the most votes overall, the party suffered its worst electoral result in more than two decades. \u201cThe victory of the PP is unquestionable,\u201d added Rajoy, \u201cbut it is also evident that we didn\u2019t reach the majorities that the citizens trusted us with four years ago.\u201d The party lost about 2.5 million votes compared with the previous local elections in 2011.A string of corruption scandals have hurt the party, he said. \u201cGoverning in a crisis as tough as what we have lived through wasn\u2019t easy or gratifying. But the PP did it,\u201d he said.With general elections due at the end of the year, he sought to address head-on the criticisms of his leadership that have surfaced with the poor election showing. \u201cI\u2019ve spent many years in this party and I\u2019m very comfortable and calm. I don\u2019t plan on making any changes to the government or to the party,\u201d he said. Instead, he said, the party would change its approach to voters. \u201cWe need to be closer to Spaniards and communicate more with them.\u201dWhile he appealed for the most voted party in each region to govern \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s what the majority of Spaniards wants,\u201d he argued \u2013 he said the PP would be open to coalitions. \u201cOur philosophy will be to offer alliances that are transparent and stable.\u201d On Monday, analysts said that coalitions between leftist parties could see the PP ousted from power in as many as half a dozen regions. Rajoy\u2019s remarks came as the indignados continue to celebrate their victory in Barcelona and a strong showing in Madrid. One of the day\u2019s most tweeted photos showed Barcelona\u2019s mayor-elect, Ada Colau, being hauled away by police as she and other housing activists occupied a bank in 2013 to demand that the bank negotiate with a man who was unable to make his mortgage payments. \u201cThe mayor of Barcelona. Congratulations,\u201d read the accompanying tweet. Earlier on Monday, Colau announced that she would begin reaching out to political parties and associations in Barcelona, such as the pro-independence Catalan National Assembly and labour unions. \u201cI want to be the mayor to all 73 neighbourhoods of this city,\u201d she said. \u201cThe fight against precariousness, the fight against corruption, these are things that cannot wait.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mariano Rajoy", "Spain", "Catalonia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mariano Rajoy disappointed by indignados' election success in Spain"},{"date": "2015-05-02T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My girlfriend can\u2019t say water in Spanish. Well, she can say agua, obviously, but no waiter ever understands her. Though I try hard not to snigger, I do. It\u2019s really not very kind.But in north-west Spain it turns out I can\u2019t say wine. Specifically, I can\u2019t say verdejo, the white grape variety that I love and that I\u2019m here to find out more about. Is that sniggering I can hear?I learned Spanish when I lived in Cuba, mangled it on holidays in Andaluc\u00eda, then confused myself further by moving to Catalan-speaking Barcelona. Now I was heading to Valladolid, 200km north of Madrid, the biggest city in the region of Castilla y Le\u00f3n and reckoned to be where the purest form of Spanish is spoken.I walked into a bar and asked for a verdejo. The barman looked blank and I tried again. This time he actually winced. In desperation I tried what sounded to me like a comedy caricature of Spanish, rasping out the \u201cj\u201d sound like a heavy smoker clearing their throat. That did the trick.This wine area is on a 700m-high plateau, where the cold nights mean there is an acidity in the grapesVerdejo comes from the area around the small town of Rueda, south of Valladolid, and just 10 years ago was barely known outside this part of Spain. Now it\u2019s hugely popular across the country and is sold in restaurants and supermarkets in the UK (Morrisons has just started stocking it). Verdejo is light but full-bodied and aromatic, and a glass/bottle goes down dangerously quickly. I often compare it to a New Zealand sauvignon blanc, although it\u2019s not as gooseberry-fruity. A bottle starts at around \u20ac3 in Spain (\u20ac8 gets you something really good) and well under \u00a310 in the UK.The towns, villages and bodegas of the Rueda area lie on a plateau about 700 metres above sea level, so while summers are dry and hot, temperatures fall steeply at night, meaning there\u2019s an acidity in the grape.Traditionally every house had a cellar, a bodega, carved out of the gravelly soil below grandma\u2019s bed, where wine was made and stored. Few of these are used today, but new commercial bodegas above ground are multiplying rapidly and wine tourism is booming. Most of the wineries welcome visitors (make a reservation) and there\u2019s a Ruta del Vino de Rueda with downloadable maps and listings.On a hill above Rueda town, the futuristic glass-and-concrete winery of Finca Montepedroso is a great example of this new breed. Its floor-to-ceiling windows have spectacular views over the vineyard and beyond, and the fact that this winery\u2019s oenologist has studied in South Africa and New Zealand shows how ambitious some verdejo winemakers are to realise the grape\u2019s potential.French-owned Belondradre y Lurton is very distinctive. Again, the architecture is spectacular \u2013 its new building curves to take in the panorama. But it is its way of making wine that makes it stand out from the crowd: it leaves the wine to ferment in oak barrels for months, rather than using steel tanks and bottling it young. That helps explain the hefty price tag, around \u20ac26. Winemaker Marta Baquerizo Mesonero-Romanos patiently explained the complexities of its wine to a man with a \u20ac6 palate.Marta\u2019s taste in food was a little more affordable. She sent me off for a great dish of chickpeas and octopus at La Atrevida (Calle Tom\u00e1s Bay\u00f3n), a tiny bar in the nearby village of La Seca.This land was fought over for centuries by the kings of Castile and Aragon, and the countryside is scattered with medieval castles. Castillo de La Mota in Medina del Campo is fascinating, particularly the imposing tower from which Cesare Borgia escaped in 1506, by presumably suitably machiavellian means. And closer to Valladolid is Castillo de Fuensalda\u00f1a (book ahead on +34 983 42 71 74) which looks like it might have been designed and built by Lego.Over a few days I visited half a dozen bodegas, from the very traditional Bodegas de Alberto \u2013 on a site where wine was produced by 17th-century Dominican monks and there\u2019s a kilometre-long series of cellars to explore \u2013 to the very modern Jos\u00e9 Pariente run by a mother and daughter team, who store the wines in giant concrete eggs.Once the capital of Spain, Valladolid proved a surprisingly charming base. The tapas were fantastic, particularly at Los Zagales (Calle de la Pasi\u00f3n 13) and El Corcho (Calle Correos 2). But the city\u2019s culinary claim to fame is lechazo, suckling lamb. My \u20ac19 serving at Mes\u00f3n Arandino (Calle Embajadores 56) was just as tender and tasty as its more famous piggy cousin.It\u2019s a lovely city to explore. Miguel de Cervantes lived here for a few years, and his house on Calle del Rastro (\u20ac3, free Saturday afternoon and Sunday) is open to the public. Christopher Columbus died in Valladolid, and Casa Museo de Col\u00f3n, on Calle Col\u00f3n, can also be visited (\u20ac2).I never learnt to pronounce verdejo to the satisfaction of the barmen of Castilla y Le\u00f3n \u2013 but thankfully their compa\u00f1eros back in Barcelona are pretty used to interpreting tourists\u2019 mangled efforts in Spanish. Verdejo, you misheard it here first...\u2022 Accommodation in Valladolid was provided by Hotel Silken Juan de Austria (doubles from \u20ac60, +34 983 457475, hoteles-silken.com). Valladolid is about an hour from Madrid by train", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Wine holidays", "Food and drink", "Wine", "Spanish food and drink", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "On the verdejo wine trail in central Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:27:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s economy is growing at its fastest pace since before the global economic crisis in 2007, official figures showed on Thursday, boosting hopes that the eurozone is bouncing back, despite the ongoing turmoil in Greece.The expansion of Spain's economic activity has been driven by important structural reformsSpain, which received a \u20ac100bn (\u00a373bn) bailout for its teetering banking sector in 2012, recorded a 0.9% increase in GDP in the first quarter of this year.The news underscored the growing divide between the fortunes of Greece and the other bailed-out eurozone countries, as Athens battles to meet its next repayment to the International Monetary Fund, due next week.Spain\u2019s strong performance led analysts to suggest that the eurozone \u2013 where a \u20ac60bn-a-month quantitative easing programme was launched in March \u2013 could be set to outpace its rivals in 2015 as growth slows in the US and the UK.Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg bank, predicted that when the full data for member countries emerged over the next fortnight it was likely to show that the eurozone economy expanded by 0.4% in the first quarter, against 0.2% in the US and 0.3% in the UK.He said Spain\u2019s recovery \u201cshows that reforms work, it should help reduce unemployment much further and thus political fragility and it serves as a shining example to Greeks of what their country could have if its government finally returns to the path of virtue\u201d. The Spanish unemployment rate remains very high, though, at 23%. Related: Eurozone recovery defies the odds but long-term problems remain Geoffrey Minne, economist at ING, said short-term factors, particularly falling oil prices, which have cut costs for consumers, and the weaker euro, which has helped exports, have also underpinned Spain\u2019s success. \u201cThe expansion of the economic activity has been driven by important structural reforms and strengthened by short-run factors,\u201d he said.Spain\u2019s healthy growth rate heightened the contrast with Greece, where the Syriza-led government is still battling to draw up a reform agreement that will satisfy its creditors.There were reports on Thursday that Greece was struggling to meet payments to 2m pensioners. The government insisted that any problems were due to a technical glitch, but the spectacle of a queue of pensioners waiting outside the National Bank of Greece in Athens added to fears that the government may be caught in a cash crisis.Negotiations on unlocking bailout funds have resumed with the IMF and the European Union, after prime minister Alexis Tsipras reshuffled his team for the talks, sidelining controversial finance minister Yanis Varoufakis.Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the eurogroup of finance ministers, issued a stern rebuke to Tsipras and his media-savvy colleagues: \u201cI wish that less time would be given to interviews and more on extraordinarily conscientiously working on keeping Greece from the threatening abyss\u201d.Ratings agency Moody\u2019s claimed that the odds were shortening on Greece leaving the eurozone as the talks went on. Moody\u2019s analyst Alastair Wilson said investors should not be complacent about the knock-on effects if Greece left the single currency area.\u201cThe direct impact might be limited because of Greece\u2019s limited trade links and lower financial market exposure to Greece in other euro area countries. But its exit could nevertheless cause a confidence shock and disrupt government debt markets.\u201d While Greece\u2019s travails are continuing, the rest of the eurozone appears to be stepping back from the brink of a deflationary slump. Official inflation figures, published on Thursday, showed that prices were flat across the eurozone in April, after falling in March. Boosting inflation was one of the key motivations for launching QE.However, City analysts warned that the eurozone was not yet out of the woods. Timo del Carpio, of RBC Capital Markets, said: \u201cThere are still real risks associated with a prolonged period of low-but-positive inflation rates across the euro area, not least as it complicates the post-crisis adjustment process.\u201dSpain\u2019s impressive recovery may help to strengthen the hand of its government, led by prime minister Mariano Rajoy, in arguing that the country should stick to the path of spending cuts and economic reforms, instead of a Greek-style rejection of austerity.Rajoy, who must hold a general election by the end of the year, faces a tough challenge from the anti-austerity party, Podemos. He recently raised his government\u2019s economic growth forecast for 2015 from 2.4% to 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "World news", "Spain", "Greece", "European Central Bank"], "title": "Eurozone recovery hopes boosted as Spain announces GDP rise"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-05-25T22:03:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s conservative prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has expressed his disappointment after the country\u2019s indignados performed strongly in elections in two big cities. \u201cEvidently the results weren\u2019t those that we would have liked to have,\u201d said Rajoy in his first remarks since Sunday\u2019s elections. While his People\u2019s party received the most votes overall, the party suffered its worst electoral result in more than two decades. \u201cThe victory of the PP is unquestionable,\u201d added Rajoy, \u201cbut it is also evident that we didn\u2019t reach the majorities that the citizens trusted us with four years ago.\u201d The party lost about 2.5 million votes compared with the previous local elections in 2011.A string of corruption scandals have hurt the party, he said. \u201cGoverning in a crisis as tough as what we have lived through wasn\u2019t easy or gratifying. But the PP did it,\u201d he said.With general elections due at the end of the year, he sought to address head-on the criticisms of his leadership that have surfaced with the poor election showing. \u201cI\u2019ve spent many years in this party and I\u2019m very comfortable and calm. I don\u2019t plan on making any changes to the government or to the party,\u201d he said. Instead, he said, the party would change its approach to voters. \u201cWe need to be closer to Spaniards and communicate more with them.\u201dWhile he appealed for the most voted party in each region to govern \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s what the majority of Spaniards wants,\u201d he argued \u2013 he said the PP would be open to coalitions. \u201cOur philosophy will be to offer alliances that are transparent and stable.\u201d On Monday, analysts said that coalitions between leftist parties could see the PP ousted from power in as many as half a dozen regions. Rajoy\u2019s remarks came as the indignados continue to celebrate their victory in Barcelona and a strong showing in Madrid. One of the day\u2019s most tweeted photos showed Barcelona\u2019s mayor-elect, Ada Colau, being hauled away by police as she and other housing activists occupied a bank in 2013 to demand that the bank negotiate with a man who was unable to make his mortgage payments. \u201cThe mayor of Barcelona. Congratulations,\u201d read the accompanying tweet. Earlier on Monday, Colau announced that she would begin reaching out to political parties and associations in Barcelona, such as the pro-independence Catalan National Assembly and labour unions. \u201cI want to be the mayor to all 73 neighbourhoods of this city,\u201d she said. \u201cThe fight against precariousness, the fight against corruption, these are things that cannot wait.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mariano Rajoy", "Spain", "Catalonia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mariano Rajoy disappointed by indignados' election success in Spain"},{"date": "2015-05-02T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My girlfriend can\u2019t say water in Spanish. Well, she can say agua, obviously, but no waiter ever understands her. Though I try hard not to snigger, I do. It\u2019s really not very kind.But in north-west Spain it turns out I can\u2019t say wine. Specifically, I can\u2019t say verdejo, the white grape variety that I love and that I\u2019m here to find out more about. Is that sniggering I can hear?I learned Spanish when I lived in Cuba, mangled it on holidays in Andaluc\u00eda, then confused myself further by moving to Catalan-speaking Barcelona. Now I was heading to Valladolid, 200km north of Madrid, the biggest city in the region of Castilla y Le\u00f3n and reckoned to be where the purest form of Spanish is spoken.I walked into a bar and asked for a verdejo. The barman looked blank and I tried again. This time he actually winced. In desperation I tried what sounded to me like a comedy caricature of Spanish, rasping out the \u201cj\u201d sound like a heavy smoker clearing their throat. That did the trick.This wine area is on a 700m-high plateau, where the cold nights mean there is an acidity in the grapesVerdejo comes from the area around the small town of Rueda, south of Valladolid, and just 10 years ago was barely known outside this part of Spain. Now it\u2019s hugely popular across the country and is sold in restaurants and supermarkets in the UK (Morrisons has just started stocking it). Verdejo is light but full-bodied and aromatic, and a glass/bottle goes down dangerously quickly. I often compare it to a New Zealand sauvignon blanc, although it\u2019s not as gooseberry-fruity. A bottle starts at around \u20ac3 in Spain (\u20ac8 gets you something really good) and well under \u00a310 in the UK.The towns, villages and bodegas of the Rueda area lie on a plateau about 700 metres above sea level, so while summers are dry and hot, temperatures fall steeply at night, meaning there\u2019s an acidity in the grape.Traditionally every house had a cellar, a bodega, carved out of the gravelly soil below grandma\u2019s bed, where wine was made and stored. Few of these are used today, but new commercial bodegas above ground are multiplying rapidly and wine tourism is booming. Most of the wineries welcome visitors (make a reservation) and there\u2019s a Ruta del Vino de Rueda with downloadable maps and listings.On a hill above Rueda town, the futuristic glass-and-concrete winery of Finca Montepedroso is a great example of this new breed. Its floor-to-ceiling windows have spectacular views over the vineyard and beyond, and the fact that this winery\u2019s oenologist has studied in South Africa and New Zealand shows how ambitious some verdejo winemakers are to realise the grape\u2019s potential.French-owned Belondradre y Lurton is very distinctive. Again, the architecture is spectacular \u2013 its new building curves to take in the panorama. But it is its way of making wine that makes it stand out from the crowd: it leaves the wine to ferment in oak barrels for months, rather than using steel tanks and bottling it young. That helps explain the hefty price tag, around \u20ac26. Winemaker Marta Baquerizo Mesonero-Romanos patiently explained the complexities of its wine to a man with a \u20ac6 palate.Marta\u2019s taste in food was a little more affordable. She sent me off for a great dish of chickpeas and octopus at La Atrevida (Calle Tom\u00e1s Bay\u00f3n), a tiny bar in the nearby village of La Seca.This land was fought over for centuries by the kings of Castile and Aragon, and the countryside is scattered with medieval castles. Castillo de La Mota in Medina del Campo is fascinating, particularly the imposing tower from which Cesare Borgia escaped in 1506, by presumably suitably machiavellian means. And closer to Valladolid is Castillo de Fuensalda\u00f1a (book ahead on +34 983 42 71 74) which looks like it might have been designed and built by Lego.Over a few days I visited half a dozen bodegas, from the very traditional Bodegas de Alberto \u2013 on a site where wine was produced by 17th-century Dominican monks and there\u2019s a kilometre-long series of cellars to explore \u2013 to the very modern Jos\u00e9 Pariente run by a mother and daughter team, who store the wines in giant concrete eggs.Once the capital of Spain, Valladolid proved a surprisingly charming base. The tapas were fantastic, particularly at Los Zagales (Calle de la Pasi\u00f3n 13) and El Corcho (Calle Correos 2). But the city\u2019s culinary claim to fame is lechazo, suckling lamb. My \u20ac19 serving at Mes\u00f3n Arandino (Calle Embajadores 56) was just as tender and tasty as its more famous piggy cousin.It\u2019s a lovely city to explore. Miguel de Cervantes lived here for a few years, and his house on Calle del Rastro (\u20ac3, free Saturday afternoon and Sunday) is open to the public. Christopher Columbus died in Valladolid, and Casa Museo de Col\u00f3n, on Calle Col\u00f3n, can also be visited (\u20ac2).I never learnt to pronounce verdejo to the satisfaction of the barmen of Castilla y Le\u00f3n \u2013 but thankfully their compa\u00f1eros back in Barcelona are pretty used to interpreting tourists\u2019 mangled efforts in Spanish. Verdejo, you misheard it here first...\u2022 Accommodation in Valladolid was provided by Hotel Silken Juan de Austria (doubles from \u20ac60, +34 983 457475, hoteles-silken.com). Valladolid is about an hour from Madrid by train", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Wine holidays", "Food and drink", "Wine", "Spanish food and drink", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "On the verdejo wine trail in central Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:27:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s economy is growing at its fastest pace since before the global economic crisis in 2007, official figures showed on Thursday, boosting hopes that the eurozone is bouncing back, despite the ongoing turmoil in Greece.The expansion of Spain's economic activity has been driven by important structural reformsSpain, which received a \u20ac100bn (\u00a373bn) bailout for its teetering banking sector in 2012, recorded a 0.9% increase in GDP in the first quarter of this year.The news underscored the growing divide between the fortunes of Greece and the other bailed-out eurozone countries, as Athens battles to meet its next repayment to the International Monetary Fund, due next week.Spain\u2019s strong performance led analysts to suggest that the eurozone \u2013 where a \u20ac60bn-a-month quantitative easing programme was launched in March \u2013 could be set to outpace its rivals in 2015 as growth slows in the US and the UK.Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg bank, predicted that when the full data for member countries emerged over the next fortnight it was likely to show that the eurozone economy expanded by 0.4% in the first quarter, against 0.2% in the US and 0.3% in the UK.He said Spain\u2019s recovery \u201cshows that reforms work, it should help reduce unemployment much further and thus political fragility and it serves as a shining example to Greeks of what their country could have if its government finally returns to the path of virtue\u201d. The Spanish unemployment rate remains very high, though, at 23%. Related: Eurozone recovery defies the odds but long-term problems remain Geoffrey Minne, economist at ING, said short-term factors, particularly falling oil prices, which have cut costs for consumers, and the weaker euro, which has helped exports, have also underpinned Spain\u2019s success. \u201cThe expansion of the economic activity has been driven by important structural reforms and strengthened by short-run factors,\u201d he said.Spain\u2019s healthy growth rate heightened the contrast with Greece, where the Syriza-led government is still battling to draw up a reform agreement that will satisfy its creditors.There were reports on Thursday that Greece was struggling to meet payments to 2m pensioners. The government insisted that any problems were due to a technical glitch, but the spectacle of a queue of pensioners waiting outside the National Bank of Greece in Athens added to fears that the government may be caught in a cash crisis.Negotiations on unlocking bailout funds have resumed with the IMF and the European Union, after prime minister Alexis Tsipras reshuffled his team for the talks, sidelining controversial finance minister Yanis Varoufakis.Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the eurogroup of finance ministers, issued a stern rebuke to Tsipras and his media-savvy colleagues: \u201cI wish that less time would be given to interviews and more on extraordinarily conscientiously working on keeping Greece from the threatening abyss\u201d.Ratings agency Moody\u2019s claimed that the odds were shortening on Greece leaving the eurozone as the talks went on. Moody\u2019s analyst Alastair Wilson said investors should not be complacent about the knock-on effects if Greece left the single currency area.\u201cThe direct impact might be limited because of Greece\u2019s limited trade links and lower financial market exposure to Greece in other euro area countries. But its exit could nevertheless cause a confidence shock and disrupt government debt markets.\u201d While Greece\u2019s travails are continuing, the rest of the eurozone appears to be stepping back from the brink of a deflationary slump. Official inflation figures, published on Thursday, showed that prices were flat across the eurozone in April, after falling in March. Boosting inflation was one of the key motivations for launching QE.However, City analysts warned that the eurozone was not yet out of the woods. Timo del Carpio, of RBC Capital Markets, said: \u201cThere are still real risks associated with a prolonged period of low-but-positive inflation rates across the euro area, not least as it complicates the post-crisis adjustment process.\u201dSpain\u2019s impressive recovery may help to strengthen the hand of its government, led by prime minister Mariano Rajoy, in arguing that the country should stick to the path of spending cuts and economic reforms, instead of a Greek-style rejection of austerity.Rajoy, who must hold a general election by the end of the year, faces a tough challenge from the anti-austerity party, Podemos. He recently raised his government\u2019s economic growth forecast for 2015 from 2.4% to 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "World news", "Spain", "Greece", "European Central Bank"], "title": "Eurozone recovery hopes boosted as Spain announces GDP rise"},{"date": "2015-04-28T17:06:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Lawmakers in Spain are putting the final touches to legislation to raise the minimum age for marriage from 14 to 16, after children\u2019s advocates expressed concerns that the current law leaves children vulnerable to forced marriages and exploitation.The new legislation, approved by a parliamentary justice commission on Tuesday, will now go to the senate where it is expected to be debated next week.  Related: How Spain's minimum marrying age compares with the rest of Europe While the marrying age in Spain is 18, currently Spanish law allows for two exceptions: a 16-year-old wanting to marry can do so with parental permission, while 14-year-olds are allowed to marry with permission from a judge.Under the new legislation, 14- and 15-year-olds will no longer be able to marry, while 16-year-olds will now require permission from a judge or parental consent to marry. The reforms come after years of lobbying by children\u2019s rights groups, said Gabriel Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno of Unicef in Spain. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk that these young children are being forced into marriages or being married off as a consequence of an agreement in which they had little say,\u201d he said.Raising the marrying age is an attempt to ensure that children have a say in the decisions that affect their lives, their education and their health, Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno said. \u201cThese marriages, particularly in the case of young girls, often lead to an interruption of their studies,\u201d he said.In Spain, where the average age of newlyweds is 37.2 years for men and 34.1 for women, the number of adolescents getting married is relatively small, said Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno. In 2013, there was just one marriage involving a 14-year-old girl and another involving a 15-year-old girl. The numbers increased for 16-year-olds, he said, with four boys and 31 girls married in 2013. \u201cIn general, we see a gender imbalance in these marriages, with the girls more likely to be younger than the boys,\u201d Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno said.The government announced its intention to change the laws more than two years ago, and since then, he said, the numbers have climbed. In the first six months of 2014, four girls and four boys were married at the age of 14, while nine girls and eight boys were married at 15. \u201cWe don\u2019t know exactly what caused the increase, but it might have been in anticipation of the reforms being passed,\u201d he added.Detailed information on exactly who is marrying at this young age is not available, said Ana Sastre of Save the Children in Spain. \u201cSome have pointed to certain religious groups or Gypsy communities in Spain but these groups aren\u2019t likely to register these marriages with the state,\u201d she said. \u201cI\u2019m not sure our assumptions match what\u2019s actually happening on the ground.\u201dThe reforms are an important step forward as they could help dissuade some, Sastre said. \u201cBut they have to be accompanied by other measures, such as educational outreach programmes to highlight the benefits of making these decisions later in life.\u201d These types of programmes should be put in place even once the minimum age is raised to 16 years, she said. \u201cIt\u2019s still an early age to be marrying.\u201dThe reforms to the minimum age for marrying come as lawmakers push forward with legislation to raise the age of sexual consent in Spain, which at 13 years ranks among the lowest in Europe. Children\u2019s advocates have long pushed for changes, arguing that the legislation leaves minors vulnerable to sexual exploitation by adults. The new legislation, expected to come into effect in July, would raise the age to 16.Reforms to the age of sexual consent became a national debate in 2012, after the death of a 13-year-old girl at the hand of her 39-year-old lover in the small village of El Salobral near Albacete. The girl\u2019s parents had alerted the authorities to the relationship, but police said they couldn not intervene as the relationship was legal and consensual.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Marriage", "Family"], "title": "Spain moves to raise minimum marriage age to 16"},{"date": "2015-04-22T11:10:32Z", "country": "spain", "content": "About 30km north of M\u00e1laga lies the majestic El Torcal de Antequera natural park. There\u2019s only 17 square km of it, and it was under the sea until 100 million years ago \u2013 quite recently in geological terms. It\u2019s a special place \u2013 a craggy landscape of dramatic limestone formations, and also a good spot to escape the beautiful but crowded towns of M\u00e1laga province for some peace. Related: The emerging fine food scene in M\u00e1laga and around Entry to the park is free and walkers can explore it by taking one of three routes of varying length and difficulty. The 1.5km green and 3km yellow routes can be done independently by just following the coloured arrows, but the more difficult 4.5km red trail takes about three hours and requires a guide (about \u20ac8 per person). Climbing to a height of 1,339 metres, it offers spectacular views.Standing in this ancient landscape, I felt time had stood still. My moment of solitude came with a gentle musical soundtrack: as the sun dipped in the sky, casting a golden light across the rocky shapes, the sound of bells from a herd of sheep grazing in the hills was carried to me on the breeze. \u2022 torcaldeantequera.com", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Andalucia holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel"], "title": "El Torcal de Antequera natural park, Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-25T16:49:15Z", "country": "spain", "content": "The British courts will hear a controversial legal battle after Rwanda\u2019s intelligence chief said he would fight an extradition request from Spain over allegations of genocide and terrorism, charges the country\u2019s government insists are politically motivated and insulting.Emmanuel Karenzi Karake, whose legal campaign is being led by Cherie Booth QC, was arrested at Heathrow airport on Saturday under a European arrest warrant following his six-day trip to London. He was granted conditional bail on Thursday, pending a full extradition hearing. The bail conditions include a \u00a31m surety given by Rwandan diplomats.He is a senior member of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), the movement which halted the country\u2019s 1994 genocide by extremists from the Hutu majority that led to the deaths of an estimated 800,000 Rwandans, mainly Tutsis. The RPF is led by Rwanda\u2019s president, Paul Kagame.Karake is among 40 people sought on the orders of a Spanish judge over the alleged murder of three Spanish aid workers in Rwanda and revenge massacres of Hutus in the wake of the genocide.Speaking on Thursday, Kagame said in a speech: \u201cAny decent Rwandan, any decent African, and even any decent person from these countries cannot accept this. Absolutely not.\u201dKarake appeared before Westminster magistrates, dressed in a green and yellow patterned jumpsuit, seemingly a prison issue garment. Dozens of Rwandan nationals, who had protested outside the court before packing into the public gallery, cheered as he greeted them with a raised hand salute.Aaron Watkins, representing the Spanish government, said Karake\u2019s bail should be refused ahead of a full extradition hearing at the end of October, since there was a serious risk of his fleeing.\u201cWe submit that in this unusual case there are strong grounds that if granted bail the defendant would refuse to surrender,\u201d Watkins argued. While Karake\u2019s lawyers said he was in the UK on official government business, the UK Border Agency had said this was not the case, Watkins added.But Mark Summers QC, representing Karake and verbally advised throughout the hearing by Booth, said his client, whom he referred to throughout as \u201cthe general\u201d, was \u201ca man of impeccable character\u201d who should never have been arrested.\u201cHe is not a rogue officer,\u201d Summers said. \u201cHe is a senior member of a respected and democratic government.\u201d Summers described the Spanish warrant as deeply flawed, politically motived and \u201cdriven by parties with links to the underlying genocide\u201d in Rwanda.Interpol had sufficient doubts about the warrant to refuse to circulate it, Summers said, adding: \u201cIt seeks to crimimalise the whole of the current Rwandan government.\u201d Summers said Karake would argue for diplomatic immunity, saying his visa to the UK was granted following a request to UK diplomats for him to travel on \u201can official mission\u201d.Rwanda\u2019s high commissioner to the UK, Williams Nkurunziza, attended the hearing, as did the country\u2019s ambassador to Spain. The court heard Nkurunziza had written to personally guarantee Karake would not flee.Summers insisted bail could be granted safely, saying that if Karake were to flee it would bring \u201cshame and disrespect\u201d on the Rwandan government.The district judge, Quentin Purdy, granted Karake bail on condition he lived at a high commission property, staying there from between the hours of 8pm and 8am, reported daily to Barnet police station in London and did not go beyond the M25. He was to remain in custody until the Rwandan officials provided the \u00a31m in surety. Booth said this was not expected to happen this Thursday.A full extradition hearing would be held on 29 and 30 October. As Karake was led away from the dock his supporters left the courtroom singing and cheering. The British high commission in Rwanda\u2019s capital Kigali has been the focus for protests over the past two days and his arrest has been criticised by Andrew Mitchell, formerly the international development secretary.However, Karake has faced accusations of links to atrocities. When he was made deputy chief of the UN-African Union peacekeeping force in Sudan\u2019s Darfur region, the organisation Human Rights Watch criticised the appointment.Anneke Van Wouldenberg from Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing, said the allegations deserved to be heard in court: \u201cThe Spanish arrest warrant, in our opinion, has some merit. It certainly has some political overtones and some bits of it one can question, but there\u2019s a core that tallies very much with Human Rights Watch\u2019s evidence.\u201d ", "tags": ["Rwanda", "Extradition", "Paul Kagame", "UK news", "Spain", "Africa", "Cherie Blair", "World news"], "title": "Rwandan intelligence chief refuses extradition from UK to Spain"},{"date": "2015-06-22T07:41:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Journalists in Spain believe press freedom is in danger of being undermined ahead of national elections due in November this year.Some of them argue that freedom of expression, which has been enshrined in the constitution since the end of Franco\u2019s dictatorship, is under threat both openly and behind the scenes. According to a report by one of the members of this month\u2019s International Press Institute (IPI) delegation to Spain, Stephen Whittle, the journalists point to five factors: The overt politicisation of RTVE, Spain\u2019s public service broadcaster; the fact that six new broadcasting licences will be granted by the government rather than an independent broadcasting regulator; the provisions of a new public security law, which comes into force next week and provides for fines for the taking of \u201cunauthorised images\u201d of the police and security forces; the way in which institutional advertising is allocated; and the private pressure on media owners and editors to toe the line.Four political parties, each attracting about 20% support in the polls, are fighting to win power and, \u201cas in most wars, the first casualty is truth\u201d, writes Whittle.He cites concerns raised by the Platform for the Defence of Free Expression (PDLI), a group of journalists, lawyers and academics founded last December.Its president, Virginia P\u00e9rez Alonso, argues that Spain\u2019s economic crisis and claims about terrorist threat are being used as a smokescreen to introduce reforms likely to restrict press freedom.She says: \u201cMany of these reforms have a common denominator: curtailing those methods of sharing information, placing barriers on the internet as a space of free expression and penalising, in some cases disproportionately, new forms of protest\u201d.Her group argues that new public security law, which should be known as the \u201cgag law\u201d, has been criticised by the UN\u2019s human rights rapporteurs.The IPI delegation, accompanied by representatives from the European Federation of Journalists and the Committee to Protect Journalists, spent three days in Madrid in order to persuade parties of the virtues of accurate and impartial political media coverage.One of the main areas of contention is the widely watched RTVE. Its newly appointed chairman has boasted of his political affiliation to the ruling conservative party, PP.The party\u2019s spokesman in parliament told the IPI mission that it was necessary to make such an appointment because RTVE\u2019s reporting \u201chad been anti-government\u201d.See more here and especially here - the report on the state of press freedom in Spain published in March after the IPI\u2019s December mission.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Newspapers"], "title": "Press freedom under threat in Spain, says IPI delegate"},{"date": "2015-06-21T06:00:00Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Why go?Spanish airline Air Nostrum launches direct flights between Luton and Vigo next month (airnostrum.es). Sprawling and industrial, this sea-facing city is not a place to fall in love with at first sight. But beneath the occasionally gritty facade beats the heart of one of Spain\u2019s most energetic and forward-looking towns. It has a vibrant nightlife and restaurant scene, as well as some of Galicia\u2019s most glorious beaches on its doorstep.What to doGet your bearings by climbing to the Castro hill fort for far-reaching views across the city and harbour. Explore the plazas and medieval streets of the Casco Vello \u2013 the rapidly gentrifiying old town which is now home to cool bars, coffee shops and galleries. Learn about Vigo\u2019s long seafaring history at the Museo do Mar (museodomar.xunta/es) or catch an avant-garde exhibition in Marco, the Museum of Contemporary Art (marcovigo.com). Escape the city by catching a ferry to the unspoiled Islas C\u00edes \u2013 a 45-minute ride away \u2013 for lazy picnics on white-sand beaches and peacful hikes through the forest.Where to stayThe Hotel Puerta Gamboa is a family-run hotel with plenty of character in the old town. There are just 11 rooms all of which have either a small balcony or terrace (from \u00a353 a night, hotelpuertagamboa.com).Where to eatVigo\u2019s A Pedra market is famous for its oysters, which you can enjoy with a glass of Albari\u00f1o at the Casa Vella restaurant (restaurantecasavellavigo.com). For creative, high-quality tapas try the Othilio Bar (theothiliobar.blogspot.ie), which opened last year.Insider tipSean O\u2019Rourke, co-founder of EATour Specialist (eatourspecialist.com), which runs culinary tours of Vigo and beyond, recommends taking the ferry to the seaside village of Cangas. \u201cIt\u2019s a pleasant 20-minute ride across the harbour and you get to see the city from the sea. Spend the day on the beach, then watch the sun set from the Monte O Facho in Donon, with a panoramic view of the whole of Vigo Bay.\u201dHome: Posh camping in Rutland Glamping specialist Lantern and Larks has opened a new site in a walled garden in the grounds of Exton Park, Rutland. The stately home\u2019s former orchard and kitchen garden will be home to five colonial-style luxury tents. There are 14 miles of bridleways to explore and Rutland Water, the UK\u2019s largest manmade lake, is a short ride away. A two-night break in June costs \u00a3297.50 for a family of four (lanternandlarks.co.uk).Away: Visit Moominworld in Finland The Finnish resort of Naantali Spa has launched a Moomin-themed break to coincide with the release of the Moomins on the Riviera movie. Naantali is the home of Moomin creator Tove Jansson and the Moominworld theme park. Packages cost \u00a3652 for a family of four, including three nights\u2019 B&B in a Moomin-themed room and tickets and train transfers to the theme park. Flights are extra (naantalispa.fi).", "tags": ["Travel", "Spain holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Vigo, Spain \u2013 plus this week\u2019s top deals"},{"date": "2015-05-25T22:03:59Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s conservative prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has expressed his disappointment after the country\u2019s indignados performed strongly in elections in two big cities. \u201cEvidently the results weren\u2019t those that we would have liked to have,\u201d said Rajoy in his first remarks since Sunday\u2019s elections. While his People\u2019s party received the most votes overall, the party suffered its worst electoral result in more than two decades. \u201cThe victory of the PP is unquestionable,\u201d added Rajoy, \u201cbut it is also evident that we didn\u2019t reach the majorities that the citizens trusted us with four years ago.\u201d The party lost about 2.5 million votes compared with the previous local elections in 2011.A string of corruption scandals have hurt the party, he said. \u201cGoverning in a crisis as tough as what we have lived through wasn\u2019t easy or gratifying. But the PP did it,\u201d he said.With general elections due at the end of the year, he sought to address head-on the criticisms of his leadership that have surfaced with the poor election showing. \u201cI\u2019ve spent many years in this party and I\u2019m very comfortable and calm. I don\u2019t plan on making any changes to the government or to the party,\u201d he said. Instead, he said, the party would change its approach to voters. \u201cWe need to be closer to Spaniards and communicate more with them.\u201dWhile he appealed for the most voted party in each region to govern \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s what the majority of Spaniards wants,\u201d he argued \u2013 he said the PP would be open to coalitions. \u201cOur philosophy will be to offer alliances that are transparent and stable.\u201d On Monday, analysts said that coalitions between leftist parties could see the PP ousted from power in as many as half a dozen regions. Rajoy\u2019s remarks came as the indignados continue to celebrate their victory in Barcelona and a strong showing in Madrid. One of the day\u2019s most tweeted photos showed Barcelona\u2019s mayor-elect, Ada Colau, being hauled away by police as she and other housing activists occupied a bank in 2013 to demand that the bank negotiate with a man who was unable to make his mortgage payments. \u201cThe mayor of Barcelona. Congratulations,\u201d read the accompanying tweet. Earlier on Monday, Colau announced that she would begin reaching out to political parties and associations in Barcelona, such as the pro-independence Catalan National Assembly and labour unions. \u201cI want to be the mayor to all 73 neighbourhoods of this city,\u201d she said. \u201cThe fight against precariousness, the fight against corruption, these are things that cannot wait.\u201d ", "tags": ["Mariano Rajoy", "Spain", "Catalonia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mariano Rajoy disappointed by indignados' election success in Spain"},{"date": "2015-05-02T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "My girlfriend can\u2019t say water in Spanish. Well, she can say agua, obviously, but no waiter ever understands her. Though I try hard not to snigger, I do. It\u2019s really not very kind.But in north-west Spain it turns out I can\u2019t say wine. Specifically, I can\u2019t say verdejo, the white grape variety that I love and that I\u2019m here to find out more about. Is that sniggering I can hear?I learned Spanish when I lived in Cuba, mangled it on holidays in Andaluc\u00eda, then confused myself further by moving to Catalan-speaking Barcelona. Now I was heading to Valladolid, 200km north of Madrid, the biggest city in the region of Castilla y Le\u00f3n and reckoned to be where the purest form of Spanish is spoken.I walked into a bar and asked for a verdejo. The barman looked blank and I tried again. This time he actually winced. In desperation I tried what sounded to me like a comedy caricature of Spanish, rasping out the \u201cj\u201d sound like a heavy smoker clearing their throat. That did the trick.This wine area is on a 700m-high plateau, where the cold nights mean there is an acidity in the grapesVerdejo comes from the area around the small town of Rueda, south of Valladolid, and just 10 years ago was barely known outside this part of Spain. Now it\u2019s hugely popular across the country and is sold in restaurants and supermarkets in the UK (Morrisons has just started stocking it). Verdejo is light but full-bodied and aromatic, and a glass/bottle goes down dangerously quickly. I often compare it to a New Zealand sauvignon blanc, although it\u2019s not as gooseberry-fruity. A bottle starts at around \u20ac3 in Spain (\u20ac8 gets you something really good) and well under \u00a310 in the UK.The towns, villages and bodegas of the Rueda area lie on a plateau about 700 metres above sea level, so while summers are dry and hot, temperatures fall steeply at night, meaning there\u2019s an acidity in the grape.Traditionally every house had a cellar, a bodega, carved out of the gravelly soil below grandma\u2019s bed, where wine was made and stored. Few of these are used today, but new commercial bodegas above ground are multiplying rapidly and wine tourism is booming. Most of the wineries welcome visitors (make a reservation) and there\u2019s a Ruta del Vino de Rueda with downloadable maps and listings.On a hill above Rueda town, the futuristic glass-and-concrete winery of Finca Montepedroso is a great example of this new breed. Its floor-to-ceiling windows have spectacular views over the vineyard and beyond, and the fact that this winery\u2019s oenologist has studied in South Africa and New Zealand shows how ambitious some verdejo winemakers are to realise the grape\u2019s potential.French-owned Belondradre y Lurton is very distinctive. Again, the architecture is spectacular \u2013 its new building curves to take in the panorama. But it is its way of making wine that makes it stand out from the crowd: it leaves the wine to ferment in oak barrels for months, rather than using steel tanks and bottling it young. That helps explain the hefty price tag, around \u20ac26. Winemaker Marta Baquerizo Mesonero-Romanos patiently explained the complexities of its wine to a man with a \u20ac6 palate.Marta\u2019s taste in food was a little more affordable. She sent me off for a great dish of chickpeas and octopus at La Atrevida (Calle Tom\u00e1s Bay\u00f3n), a tiny bar in the nearby village of La Seca.This land was fought over for centuries by the kings of Castile and Aragon, and the countryside is scattered with medieval castles. Castillo de La Mota in Medina del Campo is fascinating, particularly the imposing tower from which Cesare Borgia escaped in 1506, by presumably suitably machiavellian means. And closer to Valladolid is Castillo de Fuensalda\u00f1a (book ahead on +34 983 42 71 74) which looks like it might have been designed and built by Lego.Over a few days I visited half a dozen bodegas, from the very traditional Bodegas de Alberto \u2013 on a site where wine was produced by 17th-century Dominican monks and there\u2019s a kilometre-long series of cellars to explore \u2013 to the very modern Jos\u00e9 Pariente run by a mother and daughter team, who store the wines in giant concrete eggs.Once the capital of Spain, Valladolid proved a surprisingly charming base. The tapas were fantastic, particularly at Los Zagales (Calle de la Pasi\u00f3n 13) and El Corcho (Calle Correos 2). But the city\u2019s culinary claim to fame is lechazo, suckling lamb. My \u20ac19 serving at Mes\u00f3n Arandino (Calle Embajadores 56) was just as tender and tasty as its more famous piggy cousin.It\u2019s a lovely city to explore. Miguel de Cervantes lived here for a few years, and his house on Calle del Rastro (\u20ac3, free Saturday afternoon and Sunday) is open to the public. Christopher Columbus died in Valladolid, and Casa Museo de Col\u00f3n, on Calle Col\u00f3n, can also be visited (\u20ac2).I never learnt to pronounce verdejo to the satisfaction of the barmen of Castilla y Le\u00f3n \u2013 but thankfully their compa\u00f1eros back in Barcelona are pretty used to interpreting tourists\u2019 mangled efforts in Spanish. Verdejo, you misheard it here first...\u2022 Accommodation in Valladolid was provided by Hotel Silken Juan de Austria (doubles from \u20ac60, +34 983 457475, hoteles-silken.com). Valladolid is about an hour from Madrid by train", "tags": ["Spain holidays", "Wine holidays", "Food and drink", "Wine", "Spanish food and drink", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "On the verdejo wine trail in central Spain"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:27:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s economy is growing at its fastest pace since before the global economic crisis in 2007, official figures showed on Thursday, boosting hopes that the eurozone is bouncing back, despite the ongoing turmoil in Greece.The expansion of Spain's economic activity has been driven by important structural reformsSpain, which received a \u20ac100bn (\u00a373bn) bailout for its teetering banking sector in 2012, recorded a 0.9% increase in GDP in the first quarter of this year.The news underscored the growing divide between the fortunes of Greece and the other bailed-out eurozone countries, as Athens battles to meet its next repayment to the International Monetary Fund, due next week.Spain\u2019s strong performance led analysts to suggest that the eurozone \u2013 where a \u20ac60bn-a-month quantitative easing programme was launched in March \u2013 could be set to outpace its rivals in 2015 as growth slows in the US and the UK.Christian Schulz, senior economist at Berenberg bank, predicted that when the full data for member countries emerged over the next fortnight it was likely to show that the eurozone economy expanded by 0.4% in the first quarter, against 0.2% in the US and 0.3% in the UK.He said Spain\u2019s recovery \u201cshows that reforms work, it should help reduce unemployment much further and thus political fragility and it serves as a shining example to Greeks of what their country could have if its government finally returns to the path of virtue\u201d. The Spanish unemployment rate remains very high, though, at 23%. Related: Eurozone recovery defies the odds but long-term problems remain Geoffrey Minne, economist at ING, said short-term factors, particularly falling oil prices, which have cut costs for consumers, and the weaker euro, which has helped exports, have also underpinned Spain\u2019s success. \u201cThe expansion of the economic activity has been driven by important structural reforms and strengthened by short-run factors,\u201d he said.Spain\u2019s healthy growth rate heightened the contrast with Greece, where the Syriza-led government is still battling to draw up a reform agreement that will satisfy its creditors.There were reports on Thursday that Greece was struggling to meet payments to 2m pensioners. The government insisted that any problems were due to a technical glitch, but the spectacle of a queue of pensioners waiting outside the National Bank of Greece in Athens added to fears that the government may be caught in a cash crisis.Negotiations on unlocking bailout funds have resumed with the IMF and the European Union, after prime minister Alexis Tsipras reshuffled his team for the talks, sidelining controversial finance minister Yanis Varoufakis.Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the eurogroup of finance ministers, issued a stern rebuke to Tsipras and his media-savvy colleagues: \u201cI wish that less time would be given to interviews and more on extraordinarily conscientiously working on keeping Greece from the threatening abyss\u201d.Ratings agency Moody\u2019s claimed that the odds were shortening on Greece leaving the eurozone as the talks went on. Moody\u2019s analyst Alastair Wilson said investors should not be complacent about the knock-on effects if Greece left the single currency area.\u201cThe direct impact might be limited because of Greece\u2019s limited trade links and lower financial market exposure to Greece in other euro area countries. But its exit could nevertheless cause a confidence shock and disrupt government debt markets.\u201d While Greece\u2019s travails are continuing, the rest of the eurozone appears to be stepping back from the brink of a deflationary slump. Official inflation figures, published on Thursday, showed that prices were flat across the eurozone in April, after falling in March. Boosting inflation was one of the key motivations for launching QE.However, City analysts warned that the eurozone was not yet out of the woods. Timo del Carpio, of RBC Capital Markets, said: \u201cThere are still real risks associated with a prolonged period of low-but-positive inflation rates across the euro area, not least as it complicates the post-crisis adjustment process.\u201dSpain\u2019s impressive recovery may help to strengthen the hand of its government, led by prime minister Mariano Rajoy, in arguing that the country should stick to the path of spending cuts and economic reforms, instead of a Greek-style rejection of austerity.Rajoy, who must hold a general election by the end of the year, faces a tough challenge from the anti-austerity party, Podemos. He recently raised his government\u2019s economic growth forecast for 2015 from 2.4% to 2.9%.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Banking", "Business", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "World news", "Spain", "Greece", "European Central Bank"], "title": "Eurozone recovery hopes boosted as Spain announces GDP rise"},{"date": "2015-04-28T17:06:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Lawmakers in Spain are putting the final touches to legislation to raise the minimum age for marriage from 14 to 16, after children\u2019s advocates expressed concerns that the current law leaves children vulnerable to forced marriages and exploitation.The new legislation, approved by a parliamentary justice commission on Tuesday, will now go to the senate where it is expected to be debated next week.  Related: How Spain's minimum marrying age compares with the rest of Europe While the marrying age in Spain is 18, currently Spanish law allows for two exceptions: a 16-year-old wanting to marry can do so with parental permission, while 14-year-olds are allowed to marry with permission from a judge.Under the new legislation, 14- and 15-year-olds will no longer be able to marry, while 16-year-olds will now require permission from a judge or parental consent to marry. The reforms come after years of lobbying by children\u2019s rights groups, said Gabriel Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno of Unicef in Spain. \u201cThere\u2019s a risk that these young children are being forced into marriages or being married off as a consequence of an agreement in which they had little say,\u201d he said.Raising the marrying age is an attempt to ensure that children have a say in the decisions that affect their lives, their education and their health, Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno said. \u201cThese marriages, particularly in the case of young girls, often lead to an interruption of their studies,\u201d he said.In Spain, where the average age of newlyweds is 37.2 years for men and 34.1 for women, the number of adolescents getting married is relatively small, said Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno. In 2013, there was just one marriage involving a 14-year-old girl and another involving a 15-year-old girl. The numbers increased for 16-year-olds, he said, with four boys and 31 girls married in 2013. \u201cIn general, we see a gender imbalance in these marriages, with the girls more likely to be younger than the boys,\u201d Gonz\u00e1lez-Bueno said.The government announced its intention to change the laws more than two years ago, and since then, he said, the numbers have climbed. In the first six months of 2014, four girls and four boys were married at the age of 14, while nine girls and eight boys were married at 15. \u201cWe don\u2019t know exactly what caused the increase, but it might have been in anticipation of the reforms being passed,\u201d he added.Detailed information on exactly who is marrying at this young age is not available, said Ana Sastre of Save the Children in Spain. \u201cSome have pointed to certain religious groups or Gypsy communities in Spain but these groups aren\u2019t likely to register these marriages with the state,\u201d she said. \u201cI\u2019m not sure our assumptions match what\u2019s actually happening on the ground.\u201dThe reforms are an important step forward as they could help dissuade some, Sastre said. \u201cBut they have to be accompanied by other measures, such as educational outreach programmes to highlight the benefits of making these decisions later in life.\u201d These types of programmes should be put in place even once the minimum age is raised to 16 years, she said. \u201cIt\u2019s still an early age to be marrying.\u201dThe reforms to the minimum age for marrying come as lawmakers push forward with legislation to raise the age of sexual consent in Spain, which at 13 years ranks among the lowest in Europe. Children\u2019s advocates have long pushed for changes, arguing that the legislation leaves minors vulnerable to sexual exploitation by adults. The new legislation, expected to come into effect in July, would raise the age to 16.Reforms to the age of sexual consent became a national debate in 2012, after the death of a 13-year-old girl at the hand of her 39-year-old lover in the small village of El Salobral near Albacete. The girl\u2019s parents had alerted the authorities to the relationship, but police said they couldn not intervene as the relationship was legal and consensual.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Marriage", "Family"], "title": "Spain moves to raise minimum marriage age to 16"},{"date": "2015-04-09T14:34:37Z", "country": "spain", "content": "It was meant to just be the picturesque backdrop for a tale of sun-soaked British dreams gone sour.But Spain is up in arms at BBC documentary Costa del Sol: Last Brits Standing, which followed expats such as Big Dave, Bronte the barmaid and 66-year-old jive dance instructor Colin. This week Spaniards got their first look at the film, and few are impressed.\u201cIt paints a picture of Spain as a cruel place, facing off against a British colony,\u201d wrote B\u00e1rbara Mora of online television news site Vertele. She marveled at its ability to fill 55 minutes with Spaniards who consistently described the English as \u201cbarbaric\u201d and \u201ccrazy,\u201d and with an expat who keeps a straight face as he explained that \u201cthe Spanish, before we arrived, used to ride on donkeys. Now they ride round on brand new cars because the bit of land they had, they sold to the Brits. We built houses, we built everything.\u201d Related: Costa del Sol: Last Brits Standing - the end of an expat dream? The colourful cast of characters seem more bent on telling the story plucked out of the director\u2019s imagination than one that echoes the realities of life today in the Costa del Sol, said Mora. \u201cIt\u2019s a manipulated, out-of-date report that doesn\u2019t bring anything new to the table. Just irritation.\u201dOn social media, many saw the documentary as a swipe at Spain by the BBC. \u201cCome April every year, we have the traditional and charming campaign of the BBC against tourism in Spain,\u201d posted one Twitter user, while another urged the channel to label the documentary as science-fiction. Related: Costa del Sol: Last Brits Standing; Teens review \u2013 \u2018They look at us like we\u2019re their Polish, over here, nicking their jobs\u2019 Others took aim at the stereotypical portrayal of Spaniards by lobbing back British stereotypes on Twitter. \u201cWe should instead follow their example and drink until we drop, touch girls when we go out drinking and throw ourselves from balconies,\u201d wrote one.For many, the idea that Spain had hurt the expats in some way was particularly offensive. The film showed Spain as \u201ca cruel country and enemy of the British, using the stories of people who are far from the reality of Andalusia,\u201d noted La Vanguardia. The idea of a clash of cultures was aided by a cast of Spaniards who seemed to be following a scripted dialogue, said La Vanguardia, listing one tired cliche after another, whether it was describing bars that were empty of alcohol thanks to expats with a penchant for drink, or complaining of Brits who urinate in the streets.For Spanish daily ABC, a sore point was the assertion by one character that Spain no longer had anything to offer Brits, which flies in the face of recent tourism figures. In 2014, Spain received a record 65 million foreign tourists \u2013 and Brits topped the list at around 15 million.The documentary was impressive in one way, noted ABC. Despite a healthy exchange of millions of tourists between both countries as well as emigrants, \u201cjust 55 minutes was enough to turn Brits and Spaniards into enemies\u201d.", "tags": ["Documentary", "Television", "Spain", "Television & radio", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture", "Media", "Factual TV", "World news"], "title": "Frosta del Sol: BBC documentary gets cool reaction in Spain"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-08-30T12:00:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As Puerto Rico grapples with crippling debt and double-digit unemployment, a far-fetched idea to tackle the US territory\u2019s economic woes may be gaining modest traction \u2013 one that would see Puerto Rico break off from the United States to re-join Spain.\u201cBy returning to Spain, we\u2019ll have autonomy,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Nieves Seise, who in 2013 founded the group Reunification of Puerto Rico with Spain. \u201cWith autonomy Puerto Rico could have sufficient powers to boost the economy and attract foreign investment.\u201d On Sunday, as the commonwealth\u2019s financial crisis continues to cast a shadow over its relationship with the US, some of the group\u2019s more than 3,000 members will gather in Puerto Rico for their annual assembly to explore the idea of becoming the 18th autonomous region of Spain.The movement is based on a mix of nostalgia and alternative history, with Nieves Seise pointing to what he calls a flawed depiction of Puerto Rico as a colony of Spain. \u201cIn reality it was an integral part of Spain. The US invaded us in 1898, and they separated us against our will.\u201d Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis The split was superficial, he said, highlighting the similarities that endure between Spain and Puerto Rico to this day. \u201cPuerto Ricans love the Spanish people; we\u2019re Spanish. We want to return to the country to which we belong,\u201d said the 43-year-old.The idea is a long shot, as it relies on contesting the 1898 Treaty of Paris, which laid out the framework for the island to change from Spanish to American hands. Still, the group met with Spanish officials at the consulate in Puerto Rico last year. \u201cOur goal was just to let them know that our movement exists and that it\u2019s something serious.\u201d This month Nieves Seise plans to send a letter to Spanish King Felipe VI, introducing the monarch to the movement. Nieves Seise decided to launch the group out of frustration, after repeated calls to address Puerto Rico\u2019s status were ignored by the US. A 2012 referendum found 54% of the island\u2019s 3.5 million inhabitants favoured changing the island\u2019s current territorial status. The financial crisis has also injected renewed vigour into the campaigns pushing for American statehood for Puerto Rico and those pushing for independence.Nieves Seise rejected these rival campaigns, denying claims by critics who argue that Puerto Rico had fewer freedoms under Spanish rule. Instead he touted the economic advantages of joining Spain, arguing that benefits such as coming under the EU umbrella would allow Puerto Rico to move forward after nearly a decade of economic stagnation. The island would also be afforded political rights currently denied to them by the US, he said. \u201cRight now, we can\u2019t vote for the president of the United States, we have limited representation.\u201d Related: Economic exodus means two-thirds of Puerto Ricans may soon live in states The group has already managed to secure the backing of some in Spain, with a handful of support groups cropping up in recent years in the cities of M\u00e1laga and Granada. In January, about a dozen supporters in the province of Castell\u00f3n formally launched a group, said Spaniard Cristofer Pons Rodr\u00edguez. \u201cPersonally, I was attracted to the idea of creating a community of citizens that share the Spanish culture,\u201d said the 24-year-old, drawing parallels with the Commonwealth or Francophonie. \u201cIt would be about creating a Hispanic bloc as an alternative to the Anglo-Saxon world, to defend our interests.\u201dAs Spain struggles to shake off the lingering effects of a double-dip recession, Pons Rodr\u00edguez dismissed concerns that taking in Puerto Rico and its $72bn worth of public debt could dampen Spain\u2019s tepid economic recovery. \u201cThis shouldn\u2019t be an impediment to working together,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming issues like debt.\u201d To date the movement has not received any kind of formal response from Spanish authorities. Recently Puerto Rican Iv\u00e1n Arrache called on Spain to take action. \u201cAre they going to leave us to do all the work ourselves?,\u201d he wrote in El Diario de La Marina. \u201cIt takes two to tango.\u201dSpain stands to benefit from taking Puerto Rico into its fold, he said. \u201cDon\u2019t they appreciate the impact this would have against Catalan separatism and how this would help foster the idea of a united Spain?\u201dAfter two years of nurturing the movement in Puerto Rico, he said, it was time to establish whether there is any official interest in the idea from Spain. \u201cSpain needs to give us a token of good faith, even if it\u2019s just symbolic,\u201d he said. \u201cMany of us here are ready to give our all. All we\u2019re asking for is something from the other side.\u201d", "tags": ["Europe", "Puerto Rico", "Spain", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-08-30T12:00:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As Puerto Rico grapples with crippling debt and double-digit unemployment, a far-fetched idea to tackle the US territory\u2019s economic woes may be gaining modest traction \u2013 one that would see Puerto Rico break off from the United States to re-join Spain.\u201cBy returning to Spain, we\u2019ll have autonomy,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Nieves Seise, who in 2013 founded the group Reunification of Puerto Rico with Spain. \u201cWith autonomy Puerto Rico could have sufficient powers to boost the economy and attract foreign investment.\u201d On Sunday, as the commonwealth\u2019s financial crisis continues to cast a shadow over its relationship with the US, some of the group\u2019s more than 3,000 members will gather in Puerto Rico for their annual assembly to explore the idea of becoming the 18th autonomous region of Spain.The movement is based on a mix of nostalgia and alternative history, with Nieves Seise pointing to what he calls a flawed depiction of Puerto Rico as a colony of Spain. \u201cIn reality it was an integral part of Spain. The US invaded us in 1898, and they separated us against our will.\u201d Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis The split was superficial, he said, highlighting the similarities that endure between Spain and Puerto Rico to this day. \u201cPuerto Ricans love the Spanish people; we\u2019re Spanish. We want to return to the country to which we belong,\u201d said the 43-year-old.The idea is a long shot, as it relies on contesting the 1898 Treaty of Paris, which laid out the framework for the island to change from Spanish to American hands. Still, the group met with Spanish officials at the consulate in Puerto Rico last year. \u201cOur goal was just to let them know that our movement exists and that it\u2019s something serious.\u201d This month Nieves Seise plans to send a letter to Spanish King Felipe VI, introducing the monarch to the movement. Nieves Seise decided to launch the group out of frustration, after repeated calls to address Puerto Rico\u2019s status were ignored by the US. A 2012 referendum found 54% of the island\u2019s 3.5 million inhabitants favoured changing the island\u2019s current territorial status. The financial crisis has also injected renewed vigour into the campaigns pushing for American statehood for Puerto Rico and those pushing for independence.Nieves Seise rejected these rival campaigns, denying claims by critics who argue that Puerto Rico had fewer freedoms under Spanish rule. Instead he touted the economic advantages of joining Spain, arguing that benefits such as coming under the EU umbrella would allow Puerto Rico to move forward after nearly a decade of economic stagnation. The island would also be afforded political rights currently denied to them by the US, he said. \u201cRight now, we can\u2019t vote for the president of the United States, we have limited representation.\u201d Related: Economic exodus means two-thirds of Puerto Ricans may soon live in states The group has already managed to secure the backing of some in Spain, with a handful of support groups cropping up in recent years in the cities of M\u00e1laga and Granada. In January, about a dozen supporters in the province of Castell\u00f3n formally launched a group, said Spaniard Cristofer Pons Rodr\u00edguez. \u201cPersonally, I was attracted to the idea of creating a community of citizens that share the Spanish culture,\u201d said the 24-year-old, drawing parallels with the Commonwealth or Francophonie. \u201cIt would be about creating a Hispanic bloc as an alternative to the Anglo-Saxon world, to defend our interests.\u201dAs Spain struggles to shake off the lingering effects of a double-dip recession, Pons Rodr\u00edguez dismissed concerns that taking in Puerto Rico and its $72bn worth of public debt could dampen Spain\u2019s tepid economic recovery. \u201cThis shouldn\u2019t be an impediment to working together,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming issues like debt.\u201d To date the movement has not received any kind of formal response from Spanish authorities. Recently Puerto Rican Iv\u00e1n Arrache called on Spain to take action. \u201cAre they going to leave us to do all the work ourselves?,\u201d he wrote in El Diario de La Marina. \u201cIt takes two to tango.\u201dSpain stands to benefit from taking Puerto Rico into its fold, he said. \u201cDon\u2019t they appreciate the impact this would have against Catalan separatism and how this would help foster the idea of a united Spain?\u201dAfter two years of nurturing the movement in Puerto Rico, he said, it was time to establish whether there is any official interest in the idea from Spain. \u201cSpain needs to give us a token of good faith, even if it\u2019s just symbolic,\u201d he said. \u201cMany of us here are ready to give our all. All we\u2019re asking for is something from the other side.\u201d", "tags": ["Europe", "Puerto Rico", "Spain", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain"},{"date": "2015-08-17T19:15:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A beautiful aquatic plant, dating back to the start of the Cretaceous period, is believed by scientists to be the oldest flowering plant on Earth. New analysis of the fossilised remains from central Spain and the Pyrenees show that the plant is about 130 million-years-old, meaning it was around at the same time as feathered dinosaurs. The plant, Montsechia vidalii, resembles the modern-day coontail - commonly used to populate aquariums - and is thought to have grown underwater in shallow lakes. The plant snatches the title of world\u2019s oldest flower from the hands of another ancient plant, Archaefructus sinensis, discovered in 125 million-year-old fossils from Liaoning Province in China. \u201cThe \u2018first flower\u2019 is a bit of a poetic concept, but that aside, we do believe this is the oldest we have discovered so far,\u201d says David Dilcher at Indiana University, who led the analysis. To study the ancient plant, Dilcher and his team slowly dissolved the limestone around more than 1000 fossils. This left them with small fragments of the plant that could then be bleached and their structure examined using powerful microscopes. The plant appears to have had no roots or petals. Its leaves were arranged in two forms: either in a spiral or opposite one another along an axis. The plant sprouted several tiny flowers, each of which contained a single seed. Animals in this time period hadn\u2019t developed any role in the dispersal of seeds, says Dilcher. Instead, the plant is thought to have separate male and female flowers. It seems likely that the seeds were released straight into the water, where they floated off to fertilise another plant. \u201cThis is a fascinating and provocative analysis of the new fossils,\u201d says Sam Brockington, a research fellow in the department of plant sciences at Cambridge University. \u201cIt has always been difficult to say whether the first flowering plants emerged in aquatic conditions, but this paper emphasises how important aquatic environments were for the earliest flowering plants.\u201d Sometime in the middle of the Cretaceous period the diversification of the flowering plant population exploded, developing into the beautiful blooms we know today, as well as influencing the wildlife that evolved alongside. Dilcher says that we wouldn\u2019t be here at all if it weren\u2019t for plants like Montsechia vidalii. \u201cWe are a product of the many stages of evolution that went hand-in-hand with the evolution of flowering plants,\u201d he says. Bernard Gomez of Claude Bernard University, Lyon, and co-author of the paper, which is published today in PNAS, says that there may yet be an even older flowering plant. There\u2019s evidence of pollen dispersed in fossils that are around 140 million years old, he says. One thing is for sure, says Dilcher, \u201cwe need to understand as much as we can about flowering plant evolution because right now we\u2019re facing a world crisis.\u201d Most modern flowering plants need animal pollinators to reproduce, with bees serving that role for many of our most important crops. Yet bees are declining in the US and Europe. \u201cThis plant shows us where it all began,\u201d says Dilcher. \u201cIf we know more about their evolution, we might come across alternative pollinators that are hidden out of sight today but played a role in the past that we could encourage again.\u201d ", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Biology", "Bees", "Dinosaurs"], "title": "\u200bFossilised remains of world\u2019s oldest flower discovered in Spain"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-08-30T12:00:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As Puerto Rico grapples with crippling debt and double-digit unemployment, a far-fetched idea to tackle the US territory\u2019s economic woes may be gaining modest traction \u2013 one that would see Puerto Rico break off from the United States to re-join Spain.\u201cBy returning to Spain, we\u2019ll have autonomy,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Nieves Seise, who in 2013 founded the group Reunification of Puerto Rico with Spain. \u201cWith autonomy Puerto Rico could have sufficient powers to boost the economy and attract foreign investment.\u201d On Sunday, as the commonwealth\u2019s financial crisis continues to cast a shadow over its relationship with the US, some of the group\u2019s more than 3,000 members will gather in Puerto Rico for their annual assembly to explore the idea of becoming the 18th autonomous region of Spain.The movement is based on a mix of nostalgia and alternative history, with Nieves Seise pointing to what he calls a flawed depiction of Puerto Rico as a colony of Spain. \u201cIn reality it was an integral part of Spain. The US invaded us in 1898, and they separated us against our will.\u201d Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis The split was superficial, he said, highlighting the similarities that endure between Spain and Puerto Rico to this day. \u201cPuerto Ricans love the Spanish people; we\u2019re Spanish. We want to return to the country to which we belong,\u201d said the 43-year-old.The idea is a long shot, as it relies on contesting the 1898 Treaty of Paris, which laid out the framework for the island to change from Spanish to American hands. Still, the group met with Spanish officials at the consulate in Puerto Rico last year. \u201cOur goal was just to let them know that our movement exists and that it\u2019s something serious.\u201d This month Nieves Seise plans to send a letter to Spanish King Felipe VI, introducing the monarch to the movement. Nieves Seise decided to launch the group out of frustration, after repeated calls to address Puerto Rico\u2019s status were ignored by the US. A 2012 referendum found 54% of the island\u2019s 3.5 million inhabitants favoured changing the island\u2019s current territorial status. The financial crisis has also injected renewed vigour into the campaigns pushing for American statehood for Puerto Rico and those pushing for independence.Nieves Seise rejected these rival campaigns, denying claims by critics who argue that Puerto Rico had fewer freedoms under Spanish rule. Instead he touted the economic advantages of joining Spain, arguing that benefits such as coming under the EU umbrella would allow Puerto Rico to move forward after nearly a decade of economic stagnation. The island would also be afforded political rights currently denied to them by the US, he said. \u201cRight now, we can\u2019t vote for the president of the United States, we have limited representation.\u201d Related: Economic exodus means two-thirds of Puerto Ricans may soon live in states The group has already managed to secure the backing of some in Spain, with a handful of support groups cropping up in recent years in the cities of M\u00e1laga and Granada. In January, about a dozen supporters in the province of Castell\u00f3n formally launched a group, said Spaniard Cristofer Pons Rodr\u00edguez. \u201cPersonally, I was attracted to the idea of creating a community of citizens that share the Spanish culture,\u201d said the 24-year-old, drawing parallels with the Commonwealth or Francophonie. \u201cIt would be about creating a Hispanic bloc as an alternative to the Anglo-Saxon world, to defend our interests.\u201dAs Spain struggles to shake off the lingering effects of a double-dip recession, Pons Rodr\u00edguez dismissed concerns that taking in Puerto Rico and its $72bn worth of public debt could dampen Spain\u2019s tepid economic recovery. \u201cThis shouldn\u2019t be an impediment to working together,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming issues like debt.\u201d To date the movement has not received any kind of formal response from Spanish authorities. Recently Puerto Rican Iv\u00e1n Arrache called on Spain to take action. \u201cAre they going to leave us to do all the work ourselves?,\u201d he wrote in El Diario de La Marina. \u201cIt takes two to tango.\u201dSpain stands to benefit from taking Puerto Rico into its fold, he said. \u201cDon\u2019t they appreciate the impact this would have against Catalan separatism and how this would help foster the idea of a united Spain?\u201dAfter two years of nurturing the movement in Puerto Rico, he said, it was time to establish whether there is any official interest in the idea from Spain. \u201cSpain needs to give us a token of good faith, even if it\u2019s just symbolic,\u201d he said. \u201cMany of us here are ready to give our all. All we\u2019re asking for is something from the other side.\u201d", "tags": ["Europe", "Puerto Rico", "Spain", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain"},{"date": "2015-08-17T19:15:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A beautiful aquatic plant, dating back to the start of the Cretaceous period, is believed by scientists to be the oldest flowering plant on Earth. New analysis of the fossilised remains from central Spain and the Pyrenees show that the plant is about 130 million-years-old, meaning it was around at the same time as feathered dinosaurs. The plant, Montsechia vidalii, resembles the modern-day coontail - commonly used to populate aquariums - and is thought to have grown underwater in shallow lakes. The plant snatches the title of world\u2019s oldest flower from the hands of another ancient plant, Archaefructus sinensis, discovered in 125 million-year-old fossils from Liaoning Province in China. \u201cThe \u2018first flower\u2019 is a bit of a poetic concept, but that aside, we do believe this is the oldest we have discovered so far,\u201d says David Dilcher at Indiana University, who led the analysis. To study the ancient plant, Dilcher and his team slowly dissolved the limestone around more than 1000 fossils. This left them with small fragments of the plant that could then be bleached and their structure examined using powerful microscopes. The plant appears to have had no roots or petals. Its leaves were arranged in two forms: either in a spiral or opposite one another along an axis. The plant sprouted several tiny flowers, each of which contained a single seed. Animals in this time period hadn\u2019t developed any role in the dispersal of seeds, says Dilcher. Instead, the plant is thought to have separate male and female flowers. It seems likely that the seeds were released straight into the water, where they floated off to fertilise another plant. \u201cThis is a fascinating and provocative analysis of the new fossils,\u201d says Sam Brockington, a research fellow in the department of plant sciences at Cambridge University. \u201cIt has always been difficult to say whether the first flowering plants emerged in aquatic conditions, but this paper emphasises how important aquatic environments were for the earliest flowering plants.\u201d Sometime in the middle of the Cretaceous period the diversification of the flowering plant population exploded, developing into the beautiful blooms we know today, as well as influencing the wildlife that evolved alongside. Dilcher says that we wouldn\u2019t be here at all if it weren\u2019t for plants like Montsechia vidalii. \u201cWe are a product of the many stages of evolution that went hand-in-hand with the evolution of flowering plants,\u201d he says. Bernard Gomez of Claude Bernard University, Lyon, and co-author of the paper, which is published today in PNAS, says that there may yet be an even older flowering plant. There\u2019s evidence of pollen dispersed in fossils that are around 140 million years old, he says. One thing is for sure, says Dilcher, \u201cwe need to understand as much as we can about flowering plant evolution because right now we\u2019re facing a world crisis.\u201d Most modern flowering plants need animal pollinators to reproduce, with bees serving that role for many of our most important crops. Yet bees are declining in the US and Europe. \u201cThis plant shows us where it all began,\u201d says Dilcher. \u201cIf we know more about their evolution, we might come across alternative pollinators that are hidden out of sight today but played a role in the past that we could encourage again.\u201d ", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Biology", "Bees", "Dinosaurs"], "title": "\u200bFossilised remains of world\u2019s oldest flower discovered in Spain"},{"date": "2015-07-30T18:39:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s Guardia Civil police force will no longer accept donations from a brothel in Navarra, even if the money is put towards a good cause, the country\u2019s minister of the interior has said.The unusual funding arrangement came to light earlier this week when the citizen group Observatory Against Corruption filed a complaint over a donation provided by a local brothel to Guardia Civil agents in Tudela, a city of 35,000 in Navarra. The money was used to throw a celebration dedicated to Our Lady of the Pillar, the patron saint of the Guardia Civil.The group, who noted the close friendship between the owner of the brothel and a high-ranking member of the local Guardia Civil unit, directed their complaint to the central government, demanding that an investigation be carried out.Speaking to reporters in Vitoria on Thursday, minister Jorge Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz said that such donations would no longer be accepted. \u201cWe don\u2019t think this is right, despite the fact that the money is being used for good. We cannot, we should not and we won\u2019t accept donations from an establishment of these characteristics.\u201d He said he had learned of the donation through the press.Despite complaints in recent days that controversial changes to the country\u2019s security laws are being used to crack down on the practice, prostitution in Spain exists in a sort of legal limbo. While not illegal, it is often not regulated in any way.Amaiur, a leftwing political party from the Basque region, said it had put a series of written questions to the governing People\u2019s party, in order to clarify the total amount of the donation, whether the brothel had funded celebrations on other occasions and whether other events had been funded by the brothel for Guardia Civil agents.The Guardia Civil in Navarra said it would seek to immediately end such donations.Previous attempts by the Guardia Civil to pay tribute to its patron saint have also, at times, sparked outcry, such as in 2012, when the Guardia Civil\u2019s highest honour was granted to Zaragoza\u2019s Our Lady of the Pillar. At the time, Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz explained that the award was meant to pay tribute to the \u201cdeep roots of the patronage of the Virgin of Pillar, which remains part of the heritage of the Guardia Civil\u201d.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cracks down on brothel's donations to police force"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-08-30T12:00:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As Puerto Rico grapples with crippling debt and double-digit unemployment, a far-fetched idea to tackle the US territory\u2019s economic woes may be gaining modest traction \u2013 one that would see Puerto Rico break off from the United States to re-join Spain.\u201cBy returning to Spain, we\u2019ll have autonomy,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Nieves Seise, who in 2013 founded the group Reunification of Puerto Rico with Spain. \u201cWith autonomy Puerto Rico could have sufficient powers to boost the economy and attract foreign investment.\u201d On Sunday, as the commonwealth\u2019s financial crisis continues to cast a shadow over its relationship with the US, some of the group\u2019s more than 3,000 members will gather in Puerto Rico for their annual assembly to explore the idea of becoming the 18th autonomous region of Spain.The movement is based on a mix of nostalgia and alternative history, with Nieves Seise pointing to what he calls a flawed depiction of Puerto Rico as a colony of Spain. \u201cIn reality it was an integral part of Spain. The US invaded us in 1898, and they separated us against our will.\u201d Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis The split was superficial, he said, highlighting the similarities that endure between Spain and Puerto Rico to this day. \u201cPuerto Ricans love the Spanish people; we\u2019re Spanish. We want to return to the country to which we belong,\u201d said the 43-year-old.The idea is a long shot, as it relies on contesting the 1898 Treaty of Paris, which laid out the framework for the island to change from Spanish to American hands. Still, the group met with Spanish officials at the consulate in Puerto Rico last year. \u201cOur goal was just to let them know that our movement exists and that it\u2019s something serious.\u201d This month Nieves Seise plans to send a letter to Spanish King Felipe VI, introducing the monarch to the movement. Nieves Seise decided to launch the group out of frustration, after repeated calls to address Puerto Rico\u2019s status were ignored by the US. A 2012 referendum found 54% of the island\u2019s 3.5 million inhabitants favoured changing the island\u2019s current territorial status. The financial crisis has also injected renewed vigour into the campaigns pushing for American statehood for Puerto Rico and those pushing for independence.Nieves Seise rejected these rival campaigns, denying claims by critics who argue that Puerto Rico had fewer freedoms under Spanish rule. Instead he touted the economic advantages of joining Spain, arguing that benefits such as coming under the EU umbrella would allow Puerto Rico to move forward after nearly a decade of economic stagnation. The island would also be afforded political rights currently denied to them by the US, he said. \u201cRight now, we can\u2019t vote for the president of the United States, we have limited representation.\u201d Related: Economic exodus means two-thirds of Puerto Ricans may soon live in states The group has already managed to secure the backing of some in Spain, with a handful of support groups cropping up in recent years in the cities of M\u00e1laga and Granada. In January, about a dozen supporters in the province of Castell\u00f3n formally launched a group, said Spaniard Cristofer Pons Rodr\u00edguez. \u201cPersonally, I was attracted to the idea of creating a community of citizens that share the Spanish culture,\u201d said the 24-year-old, drawing parallels with the Commonwealth or Francophonie. \u201cIt would be about creating a Hispanic bloc as an alternative to the Anglo-Saxon world, to defend our interests.\u201dAs Spain struggles to shake off the lingering effects of a double-dip recession, Pons Rodr\u00edguez dismissed concerns that taking in Puerto Rico and its $72bn worth of public debt could dampen Spain\u2019s tepid economic recovery. \u201cThis shouldn\u2019t be an impediment to working together,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming issues like debt.\u201d To date the movement has not received any kind of formal response from Spanish authorities. Recently Puerto Rican Iv\u00e1n Arrache called on Spain to take action. \u201cAre they going to leave us to do all the work ourselves?,\u201d he wrote in El Diario de La Marina. \u201cIt takes two to tango.\u201dSpain stands to benefit from taking Puerto Rico into its fold, he said. \u201cDon\u2019t they appreciate the impact this would have against Catalan separatism and how this would help foster the idea of a united Spain?\u201dAfter two years of nurturing the movement in Puerto Rico, he said, it was time to establish whether there is any official interest in the idea from Spain. \u201cSpain needs to give us a token of good faith, even if it\u2019s just symbolic,\u201d he said. \u201cMany of us here are ready to give our all. All we\u2019re asking for is something from the other side.\u201d", "tags": ["Europe", "Puerto Rico", "Spain", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain"},{"date": "2015-08-17T19:15:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A beautiful aquatic plant, dating back to the start of the Cretaceous period, is believed by scientists to be the oldest flowering plant on Earth. New analysis of the fossilised remains from central Spain and the Pyrenees show that the plant is about 130 million-years-old, meaning it was around at the same time as feathered dinosaurs. The plant, Montsechia vidalii, resembles the modern-day coontail - commonly used to populate aquariums - and is thought to have grown underwater in shallow lakes. The plant snatches the title of world\u2019s oldest flower from the hands of another ancient plant, Archaefructus sinensis, discovered in 125 million-year-old fossils from Liaoning Province in China. \u201cThe \u2018first flower\u2019 is a bit of a poetic concept, but that aside, we do believe this is the oldest we have discovered so far,\u201d says David Dilcher at Indiana University, who led the analysis. To study the ancient plant, Dilcher and his team slowly dissolved the limestone around more than 1000 fossils. This left them with small fragments of the plant that could then be bleached and their structure examined using powerful microscopes. The plant appears to have had no roots or petals. Its leaves were arranged in two forms: either in a spiral or opposite one another along an axis. The plant sprouted several tiny flowers, each of which contained a single seed. Animals in this time period hadn\u2019t developed any role in the dispersal of seeds, says Dilcher. Instead, the plant is thought to have separate male and female flowers. It seems likely that the seeds were released straight into the water, where they floated off to fertilise another plant. \u201cThis is a fascinating and provocative analysis of the new fossils,\u201d says Sam Brockington, a research fellow in the department of plant sciences at Cambridge University. \u201cIt has always been difficult to say whether the first flowering plants emerged in aquatic conditions, but this paper emphasises how important aquatic environments were for the earliest flowering plants.\u201d Sometime in the middle of the Cretaceous period the diversification of the flowering plant population exploded, developing into the beautiful blooms we know today, as well as influencing the wildlife that evolved alongside. Dilcher says that we wouldn\u2019t be here at all if it weren\u2019t for plants like Montsechia vidalii. \u201cWe are a product of the many stages of evolution that went hand-in-hand with the evolution of flowering plants,\u201d he says. Bernard Gomez of Claude Bernard University, Lyon, and co-author of the paper, which is published today in PNAS, says that there may yet be an even older flowering plant. There\u2019s evidence of pollen dispersed in fossils that are around 140 million years old, he says. One thing is for sure, says Dilcher, \u201cwe need to understand as much as we can about flowering plant evolution because right now we\u2019re facing a world crisis.\u201d Most modern flowering plants need animal pollinators to reproduce, with bees serving that role for many of our most important crops. Yet bees are declining in the US and Europe. \u201cThis plant shows us where it all began,\u201d says Dilcher. \u201cIf we know more about their evolution, we might come across alternative pollinators that are hidden out of sight today but played a role in the past that we could encourage again.\u201d ", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Biology", "Bees", "Dinosaurs"], "title": "\u200bFossilised remains of world\u2019s oldest flower discovered in Spain"},{"date": "2015-07-30T18:39:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s Guardia Civil police force will no longer accept donations from a brothel in Navarra, even if the money is put towards a good cause, the country\u2019s minister of the interior has said.The unusual funding arrangement came to light earlier this week when the citizen group Observatory Against Corruption filed a complaint over a donation provided by a local brothel to Guardia Civil agents in Tudela, a city of 35,000 in Navarra. The money was used to throw a celebration dedicated to Our Lady of the Pillar, the patron saint of the Guardia Civil.The group, who noted the close friendship between the owner of the brothel and a high-ranking member of the local Guardia Civil unit, directed their complaint to the central government, demanding that an investigation be carried out.Speaking to reporters in Vitoria on Thursday, minister Jorge Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz said that such donations would no longer be accepted. \u201cWe don\u2019t think this is right, despite the fact that the money is being used for good. We cannot, we should not and we won\u2019t accept donations from an establishment of these characteristics.\u201d He said he had learned of the donation through the press.Despite complaints in recent days that controversial changes to the country\u2019s security laws are being used to crack down on the practice, prostitution in Spain exists in a sort of legal limbo. While not illegal, it is often not regulated in any way.Amaiur, a leftwing political party from the Basque region, said it had put a series of written questions to the governing People\u2019s party, in order to clarify the total amount of the donation, whether the brothel had funded celebrations on other occasions and whether other events had been funded by the brothel for Guardia Civil agents.The Guardia Civil in Navarra said it would seek to immediately end such donations.Previous attempts by the Guardia Civil to pay tribute to its patron saint have also, at times, sparked outcry, such as in 2012, when the Guardia Civil\u2019s highest honour was granted to Zaragoza\u2019s Our Lady of the Pillar. At the time, Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz explained that the award was meant to pay tribute to the \u201cdeep roots of the patronage of the Virgin of Pillar, which remains part of the heritage of the Guardia Civil\u201d.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cracks down on brothel's donations to police force"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are, according to current scholarship, 160\u00a0existing portraits by\u00a0Francisco de Goya \u2013 about a third of his painted output. The real number, though, is\u00a0much greater since there are no pure landscapes in Goya\u2019s work, in that everything he ever painted deals with people. In the work of no other great portraitist are a nation\u2019s people, history, traumas, folk traditions and superstitions so comprehensively and relentlessly captured. Titian, Holbein, Van Dyck and Rembrandt were superlative painters of the human face and figure but they made a distinction between their portraiture and their other work. Goya didn\u2019t. Put his work together \u2013 the public and private paintings, the personal drawings and sketches and the unsettling and sinister etching series \u2013 and what you have is a\u00a0portrait in the round of Spain itself.His subject was a good one since Goya lived in interesting times: his lifetime (1746-1828) was a period that saw Spain pass through the ancien regime and the effects of the French Revolution, the Napoleonic wars and the restoration of the monarchy; it was ruled by a succession of authoritarian and liberal governments; and was simultaneously marked by the Enlightenment, fervent Catholicism and a\u00a0widespread belief in the supernatural. Goya went from provincial obscurity to the Madrid court and later self-imposed exile in Bordeaux. And aged 46 he went deaf: as Spain entered its most cacophonic period he couldn\u2019t hear what was going on around him, only see. Related: My highlight: Goya  Related: Renaissance to Goya: Spain's lost art at the British Museum - in pictures People were the constant during these unstable times and he recorded both the faces of those who mattered to Spain and to him \u2013 often they were one and the same. The new exhibition at the National Gallery, Goya: the Portraits, is the first major UK show to look at his portraits alone. As with Rembrandt, the demotion of previously bona fide works (including, in preparation for this exhibition, perhaps the National\u2019s own Do\u00f1a Isabel Porcel) has meant whittling down numbers but, because some 70 works will be gathered together, this show gives a chance not just to trace Goya\u2019s development but examine in depth the types of people he painted and how\u00a0he painted them.The organisers are pitching Goya as\u00a0the \u201cfather of the psychological portrait\u201d, a difficult claim to prove, especially in the light of his statement: \u201cI have had three masters, Nature, Vel\u00e1zquez, and Rembrandt.\u201d Add in Titian, whose works he saw in the royal\u00a0collection in Madrid, and Goya joins a very select group rather than standing on his own. Psychology in portraiture is in the eye of the beholder but in his etchings, for Los Caprichos, for example \u2013 showing folly, witchcraft and superstitions \u2013 it is at the very heart of the matter.Goya was 37 by the time he painted anyone\u2019s face other than his own. Prior\u00a0to that he had been a painter of religious scenes around his home city of Zaragoza (at the Charterhouse of Aula Dei outside the city and in the imposing Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar) and then scenes of everyday life\u00a0for the Royal Tapestry Factory in Madrid. Although he studied under Jos\u00e9 Luz\u00e1n and later Francisco Bayeu, who became his brother-in-law in 1773 when he married Josefa \u201cPepa\u201d Bayeu, Goya remained largely self-taught. In the 1760s he tried twice to be accepted into the Royal Academy of Fine Art but\u00a0was rejected (the first time receiving no votes at all from the academicians), and so to further his artistic education he self-funded a two-year visit to Italy.His work as a portraitist has its origins in the 45 tapestry cartoons he painted after he moved to Madrid in 1775. Although his designs don\u2019t show portraits, they do show types \u2013 the majos and majas who gave Madrid its street swagger, peasants and rich men, courting couples, singers, hunters, children, and young men and women playing blind man\u2019s buff or tossing a\u00a0mannequin into the air. The pictures have a light, rococo palette and the faces are individualised without being those of individuals. But in them Goya practised poses and groupings and a\u00a0way of handling light on and around figures that was to be invaluable.The tapestry designs also show social roles rather than the people inhabiting them, but when it came to\u00a0painting portraits proper, Goya would turn this on its head. His greatest strength as a portraitist is that\u00a0regardless of the status of the sitter, be they\u00a0a\u00a0king and queen, the Duke of Wellington or a doctor or writer, it was the person he showed first and their position second. It was this trait, most apparent in his royal portraiture, that has led him to be seen as satirising the Bourbon monarchy rather than as a painter who depicted what he saw without showing obeisance to the usual flattering conventions. In Robert Hughes\u2019s phrase, he did not \u201cpay reflexive homage to authority\u201d but instead walked a fine line between respect and\u00a0truth.In 1780 Goya was finally elected a member of the Academy and when his first portrait commissions arrived they came from the nobility. In 1783 he painted the Count of Floridablanca, the reforming first minister of Charles III and, in 1784, his breakthrough work, The Family of the Infante Don Luis de\u00a0Borb\u00f3n, which was a\u00a0paean to Vel\u00e1zquez\u2019s Las Meninas. Don Luis (a\u00a0man, according to Casanova, \u201claid \u00e0 faire peur\u201d \u2013 \u201cso ugly it was scary\u201d) was the king\u2019s younger brother, sent into internal exile for taking time off\u00a0during a royal hunting expedition to\u00a0refresh himself with prostitutes placed strategically in the woods by his\u00a0entourage.Goya painted the rou\u00e9 as a reformed character \u2013 an uxorious husband, gathered with key members of his 550-strong household to watch his wife\u00a0Mar\u00eda Teresa have her hair done (Don Luis\u2019s first prospective bride, the king\u2019s daughter Maria Josefa, refused him on the not unreasonable grounds that he was still recovering from venereal disease). It is a candle-lit scene that pulses with intrigue: as well as the Infante (engrossed in a game of\u00a0cards), his wife and their children, Goya showed himself, \u00e0 la Vel\u00e1zquez, at his\u00a0easel; a figure that might be the composer Boccherini; another \u2013 in a\u00a0nice jibe \u2013 seems to be rival painter of\u00a0Goya\u2019s and a third who has been identified as Mar\u00eda Teresa\u2019s lover. For a first full essay in group portraiture it is remarkably daring, both in its technical accomplishment and in the strange and charged mise-en-sc\u00e9ne it depicts.Put his work together and what you have is a portrait in\u00a0the round of\u00a0Spain itselfGoya\u2019s success was rapid; in 1785 he was made deputy director of painting at the Royal Academy (his main message to his students was subversive \u2013 \u201cthere are no rules in painting\u201d) and in 1786 became pintor de c\u00e1mara, required to paint \u201cworks required for royal service\u201d. He immediately spent some of his 15,000-reales salary on a two-wheeled gig (one of only three in Madrid) which he promptly crashed on his first outing. His amour propre untouched, he wrote to his childhood friend Mart\u00edn Zapater: \u201cI have now established an enviable way of living: I do not wait on anyone in antechambers, and if anyone wants anything from me they must come to\u00a0me; I have made myself more in demand and unless it is a person of\u00a0rank or at the request of a friend I\u00a0would do nothing for anyone \u2026\u201d Five years later he blew his own trumpet even more forcibly: \u201cFrom the king downwards everyone knows me.\u201dPart of the reason for his success was that, unlike Gainsborough, for example, he did not resent portraiture as an economically necessary chore that ate away at the time he could devote to higher art. Portraiture fascinated him; it was, after all, part of that \u201csacred science which requires so much study\u201d and his portraits reveal a\u00a0fully engaged artist. There is hardly any repetition in\u00a0his poses (to help, he drew on prints of English portraits as well as classical statuary), he worked hard to give his sitters in repose a sense of latent movement and he defined them by the careful depiction of the space around them. When it came to clothing he allowed himself extraordinary freedom, the frogging on uniforms or\u00a0lace on a\u00a0dress sketched in\u00a0thick impasto rather than being laboriously defined. From close up such three-dimensional scumblings look out of focus but from a distance they coalesce into silks, braiding and gauze. Such varieties of\u00a0technique within a painting keep the\u00a0eye entertained and moving. Related: Happy Halloween: the world's scariest artworks \u2013 in pictures Shortly after the painter\u2019s death his son Javier, the sole child of seven to survive, wrote of his father\u2019s portraits: \u201cThose that he did in one session are much acclaimed. He painted only in one session, sometimes lasting 10 hours, but never as the light was fading and the final touches he would apply at\u00a0night, with artificial light.\u201d A self-portrait of the early 1790s, shows exactly that, the painter silhouetted in front of his easel and wearing a metal band round his hat to hold candles to light those \u201cfinal touches\u201d.Public success was, however, tempered by private sadness. In 1792 and 1793 he suffered a serious illness followed by a cerebral attack \u2013 described by a friend as \u201capoplexy\u201d \u2013 which left him deaf. Electrotherapy treatment did\u00a0not work.\u00a0When in 1798 he painted the liberal statesman Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos in an attitude borrowed from D\u00fcrer\u2019s Melancholia, the painter\u2019s sensitivity towards the man with the weight of Spain on his shoulders was in part reciprocal. Goya had commented on the solicitude shown to him by Jovellanos who made sure he stopped chewing when communicating with the deaf painter and used his hands clearly to gesticulate his thoughts.Deafness was no impediment, though, when in 1794 the Duchess of Alba, the highest aristocrat in the land, \u201cbarged into my studio yesterday to have her face painted\u201d. Makeup duly applied, Goya went on to\u00a0paint several portraits of her. He had\u00a0already painted her husband and mother-in-law \u2013 one of the connected series of extended family commissions that mark his work. Despite rumours, there is no evidence they were lovers (nor is she\u00a0the model for the Naked Maja) but\u00a0rather that he was an honorary member of her household. As\u00a0such he had privileged access and made many intimate sketches of her \u2013 tearing at her\u00a0hair in a fit of rage, teasing her former nanny, tenderly holding her adopted black child \u2013 as well as a pair of bravura full-lengths.One of these shows her in white and the other, which will be at the National Gallery, in black lace with a red sash, pointing to the words \u201cSolo Goya\u201d (\u201cOnly Goya\u201d) written in the sand at her feet. It is a picture that gives the lie to the words of one French visitor to Madrid, who reported pantingly: \u201cThe Duchess of Alba has not a single hair on her head that does not awaken desire. Nothing on earth is as beautiful as she is \u2026\u201d Goya shows her not as a full-on beauty but as a somewhat imperious and physically insistent character. In her will she left numerous bequests to her servants, with one to Goya\u2019s son.\u201cMy work is very simple. My art reveals idealism and truth,\u201d Goya claimed. The truth though is always more apparent than the idealism. In the most important commission of his\u00a0career, for example, the portrait of Charles IV and the royal family of 1800, he eschewed entirely the grandeur of majesty to portray the assembled Bourbons as they appeared \u2013 a motley grouping (a French visitor had likened Charles and his queen Maria Luisa to a butcher and his wife) in fancy clothes. Goya may have been a political liberal but he wouldn\u2019t have jeopardised his hard-won new position as first court painter \u2013 the first Spaniard since Vel\u00e1zquez to hold the role \u2013 in order to score political points at the expense of his patrons.That his sitters didn\u2019t regard the portrait as unflattering was evidenced by succeeding royal commissions, not least his 1815 portrait of Ferdinand VII. Ferdinand himself was physically unprepossessing, tyrannical, vicious and small-minded and that is exactly how Goya shows him. The king, however, looking in Goya\u2019s particular mirror, saw no such characteristics staring back at him.The private side of Goya\u2019s portraiture was a\u00a0world away the public. The contrast between the Ferdinand portrait and the\u00a0remarkable 1820 double portrait showing Goya with Dr\u00a0Arrieta represents a\u00a0moral version of\u00a0the three ages of man \u2013 the 73-year-old painter in the\u00a0throes of a debilitating illness being\u00a0tended with the utmost tenderness by\u00a0his doctor. If Ferdinand represents human malignity and Goya its frailty then Arrieta stands for man\u2019s innate goodness.While not all his portraits are successful (some have a doll-like stiffness), this is what Goya at his best could do: in the guise of representing individuals he showed, without judging, man as a universal being.There is a macabre but appropriate coda to Goya\u2019s story. He died in Bordeaux in 1828. In 1901, when his body was exhumed for transferral back to Spain, the skull was missing. Among the explanations suggested were that it\u00a0was stolen by a phrenologist or taken\u00a0by a medical student who, as an\u00a0experiment, filled it with dried chickpeas which he soaked with water until they expanded and the bones broke. There is also an 1849 painting by\u00a0Dionisio Fierros in the Museo de Zaragoza that purports to show the skull. What happened to it, however, remains a mystery. The painter who got\u00a0inside the heads of so many others eventually lost his own.\u2022 Goya: The Portraits is at the National Gallery, London WC2, from 7 October.", "tags": ["Francisco de Goya", "Painting", "Exhibitions", "National Gallery", "Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "From princes to paupers: how Goya\u2019s portraits tell the story of Spain"},{"date": "2015-09-30T13:57:41Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain has selected a Basque-language film for the first time to be its official submission to the Oscars.Loreak (Flowers), directed by Jon Gara\u00f1o and Jose Mari Goenaga, was announced as Spain\u2019s Oscar nominee by the Spanish Academy of Cinematic Arts and Sciences, who tweeted the film\u2019s title and \u201cEnhorabuena\u201d \u2013 \u201cCongratulations\u201d.\u00a1Enhorabuena @Loreakfilm! pic.twitter.com/db5Rgh0FfXLoreak, which centres on a woman named Ane (played by Nagore Aranburu) who starts to receive bouquets of flowers once a week from an anonymous sender, has won impressive reviews, with Variety calling it \u201cbeautifully cast\u201d and \u201can affecting story of loss and the ways people cope\u201d and the Hollywood Reporter judging it as a \u201cemotionally precise, subtle and quietly gripping exploration of ... romance and remembrance\u201d.Loreak has already proved groundbreaking: it was the first Basque-language film to screen in official competition at Spain\u2019s foremost film festival, San Sebasti\u00e0n, where it premiered in 2014, as well as becoming the first Basque feature to be nominated for best film at the Goyas, Spain\u2019s own film awards.Loreak\u2019s main competition was provided by the Carlos Vermut-directed noir Magical Girl, which won San Sebasti\u00e0n\u2019s top award, the Golden Shell; and Felices 140, a character drama directed by Gracia Querejeta; while the successful multi-Goya-winning cop thriller Marshland did not appear to be in the running.Spain last triumphed in the best foreign-language Oscar in 2004, when the Alejandro Amen\u00e1bar-directed The Sea Inside carried off the award. No Spanish film has, however, made the final nomination list in the 11 years since.", "tags": ["Film", "Oscars", "Oscars 2016", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "World cinema", "Drama"], "title": "Spain chooses Basque-language drama Loreak as Oscar submission"},{"date": "2015-09-13T12:46:23Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Police in Spain believe they have found the body of an American woman who went missing on one of the country\u2019s most popular pilgrimage routes.Officials are confident that DNA testing on Monday will confirm that remains discovered in north-west Spain on Friday are those of Denise Thiem, the American who disappeared last April while walking the Camino de Santiago route.A man, Miguel \u00c1ngel Mu\u00f1oz Blas, 39, has been arrested and over Thiem\u2019s murder. He is also being questioned about the attempted kidnapping of two other women on the Camino.Thiem, 40, disappeared near Astorga in the province of Le\u00f3n and, despite interviewing hundreds of people along the famous route, police found no clues of her whereabouts. The suspect now in custody was among those questioned at the time.Mu\u00f1oz attracted police attention a few days after Thiem\u2019s disappearance when he changed about $1,000 (\u00a3650) into euro in a local bank. He was later identified from the bank\u2019s CCTV footage but then disappeared from his shack in Castrillo de los Polvazares in Le\u00f3n. According to police, when he was questioned on Friday the suspect led them straight to the shack where Thiem\u2019s suspected remains were found. Police say her DNA has also been found on a saw belonging to Mu\u00f1oz. Related: Modern-day pilgrims beat a path to the Camino Thiem\u2019s family on Saturday thanked the Spanish police for their \u201cprofessionalism, skill and dedication\u201d and went on to thank \u201cthe Spanish people for their many prayers and heartfelt expressions of hope and concern during this long and painful ordeal of not knowing what happened to Denise\u201d.The family added in a statement that they hoped the body could be identified quickly so that \u201ctheir beloved Denise can be returned to the United States without delay so that they and her friends can honour her life and conduct a proper and reverent burial\u201d.The Camino has been a pilgrimage route since the early middle ages, but until the 1980s only a few hundred people completed the 33-day trek from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port in France to Santiago de Compostela in north-west Spain. Now, some 200,000 undertake all or sections of the journey each year. It is popular with Japanese people and, since the release of the film The Way in 2010 made by Martin Sheen and his son Emilio Estevez, a growing number of Americans are walking the Camino.", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Body of American pilgrim missing in Spain found by police"},{"date": "2015-09-05T21:52:46Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Catalans go to the polls at the end of this month to choose a new regional government in what is shaping up to be a showdown between the secessionists and central government in Madrid and between Catalans themselves, who are split on independence.The majority of pro-independence groupings have come together as Junts pel S\u00ed (United for a Yes Vote), a single-issue coalition that includes Artur Mas, the incumbent Catalan president. The poll has been billed as a plebiscite, and Mas has said he will declare unilateral independence if the group wins a majority of seats, even if it has not obtained a majority of the popular vote.The first test will be the turnout on Friday, in what has become an annual show of force by the secessionists on Catalan National Day, as tens of thousands will converge on the capital to demand independence. This year the demonstration has been billed as \u201cThe Open Road to the Catalan Republic\u201d.In spite of polls showing waning support for independence, Ra\u00fcl Romeva i Rueda, the ex-communist who leads Junts pel S\u00ed, says a unilateral declaration of independence is justified because \u201cthey [Spain] have beaten us with unjust laws and huge fines\u201d. The Madrid government has refused to enter into a dialogue on independence and has adopted a hardline stance throughout. Its reaction to Junts pel S\u00ed has been to rush through an amendment to the constitution so that any politician who declares independence can be imprisoned.Mas says there is no option but to treat the election as a plebiscite, as central government has refused to allow a referendum. He says that if Junts pel S\u00ed wins the Catalan elections on 27 September and goes on to win in Catalonia at the general election expected on 20 December, \u201cthat will serve as a second plebiscite that will send an extraordinary message to Europe and the rest of the world\u201d.This has been a year of shockwaves that have rattled Spain\u2019s political establishment. The first came in May, when a series of leftist popular fronts swept to power in Madrid, Barcelona and other major Spanish cities. Hit by a series of corruption scandals, the established conservative and socialist parties have been losing ground to new forces: Ciudadanos on the centre-right and Podemos on the left. This is also true in Catalonia, except that the picture is coloured by the national question, which has further marginalised the established parties.Polls show Catalans fairly evenly divided on the independence issue, with a small majority against. More significantly, there is little enthusiasm for secession in their capital, Barcelona, which in May voted in a leftwing mayor who\u2019d stood on a platform of social issues rather than sovereignty. Few people believe it is a coincidence that Mas called the elections on what is a holiday weekend in Barcelona in the hope that many voters will be out of town. A low turnout in the capital would favour the secessionists.Junts pel S\u00ed are opposed by another popular front, Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot (Catalonia Yes We Can), made up of Podemos, the Greens and other leftists who are standing on social issues such as health and housing and are agnostic on independence. The other key runner is Ciutadans, the Catalan version of Ciudadanos, which is expected to pick up a lot of votes from those who recoil from the idea of independence. \u201cUnilaterally declaring independence with or without a majority of seats is anti-democratic and amounts to a coup d\u2019\u00e9tat,\u201d says Ciutadans candidate Susana Beltr\u00e1n.In propaganda terms Junts pel S\u00ed, which is essentially the Catalan government plus a few allies, has the upper hand. It can count on a docile, heavily subsidised media to get its message across. Neither Ciutadans nor Catalunya S\u00ed que es Pot can expect even a fraction of that exposure.By presenting the poll as a referendum on independence the secessionists are also taking a risk. It may well incite people in the so-called \u201cred beltway\u201d of Barcelona, a string of overspill towns dominated by socialist voters of Spanish descent who are generally hostile to independence, to vote in greater numbers than they usually do in regional elections. On the other hand, Madrid\u2019s intransigence continues to drive many moderates into the independence camp.", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Spain", "Europe", "World news", "Podemos"], "title": "Spain set for secessionist clash as Catalonia\u2019s election looms"},{"date": "2015-09-04T06:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Twice a week we publish problems that will feature in a forthcoming Dear Jeremy advice column in the Saturday Guardian so that readers can offer their own advice and suggestions. We then print the best of your comments alongside Jeremy\u2019s own insights. Here is the latest dilemma \u2013 what are your thoughts?I have been a French and German teacher in a secondary school for 12 years and am also a pastoral leader (head of year). This brings with it more money but also significant extra pressure.There are many aspects of my job I love: working with young people, helping them to sort out their problems, the fact that no two days are ever the same, the rhythm of the school year, my colleagues. But I am increasingly worn down by the workload and target-driven culture. Most weekdays are 12 hours long, increasing to 14 when marking is at a peak. I spend part of every weekend either planning lessons or assemblies, or marking. Hobbies and interests fall by the wayside.At the age of 50, I long for a better work-life balance. My youngest child is one year away from university and I want to make decisions about my future. I have always been in education of one form or another. I would definitely consider a move into another sector but feel overwhelmed as to where to start. Working with people, a varied work environment and not being desk-bound are important considerations.As a younger woman, I worked abroad and I would love to learn Spanish and am considering doing a TEFL qualification, which seems to be a minimum requirement in Spain. I would like a high quality, well-regarded qualification which seems to rule out studying online. This leaves a four-week intensive (impossible with work) or 12-week part-time (equally impossible in a working week). So I feel the only option would be to quit the job in England with no job lined up, do the four-week intensive course in Spain and then start job hunting, a prospect which I feel very anxious about, especially as I have no savings.And then the reality check kicks in: why I am I thinking of pursuing a career change which is financial suicide? An entry level English teaching job in Spain would pay less than half of my current salary. I still have 15 years of a mortgage to pay in this country.Do you need advice on a work issue? For Jeremy\u2019s and readers\u2019 help, send a brief email to dear.jeremy@theguardian.com. Please note that he is unable to answer questions of a legal nature or to reply personally.", "tags": ["Job hunting", "Work-life balance", "Work & careers", "Money"], "title": "Should I risk everything and move to Spain?"},{"date": "2015-08-30T12:00:05Z", "country": "spain", "content": "As Puerto Rico grapples with crippling debt and double-digit unemployment, a far-fetched idea to tackle the US territory\u2019s economic woes may be gaining modest traction \u2013 one that would see Puerto Rico break off from the United States to re-join Spain.\u201cBy returning to Spain, we\u2019ll have autonomy,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Nieves Seise, who in 2013 founded the group Reunification of Puerto Rico with Spain. \u201cWith autonomy Puerto Rico could have sufficient powers to boost the economy and attract foreign investment.\u201d On Sunday, as the commonwealth\u2019s financial crisis continues to cast a shadow over its relationship with the US, some of the group\u2019s more than 3,000 members will gather in Puerto Rico for their annual assembly to explore the idea of becoming the 18th autonomous region of Spain.The movement is based on a mix of nostalgia and alternative history, with Nieves Seise pointing to what he calls a flawed depiction of Puerto Rico as a colony of Spain. \u201cIn reality it was an integral part of Spain. The US invaded us in 1898, and they separated us against our will.\u201d Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis The split was superficial, he said, highlighting the similarities that endure between Spain and Puerto Rico to this day. \u201cPuerto Ricans love the Spanish people; we\u2019re Spanish. We want to return to the country to which we belong,\u201d said the 43-year-old.The idea is a long shot, as it relies on contesting the 1898 Treaty of Paris, which laid out the framework for the island to change from Spanish to American hands. Still, the group met with Spanish officials at the consulate in Puerto Rico last year. \u201cOur goal was just to let them know that our movement exists and that it\u2019s something serious.\u201d This month Nieves Seise plans to send a letter to Spanish King Felipe VI, introducing the monarch to the movement. Nieves Seise decided to launch the group out of frustration, after repeated calls to address Puerto Rico\u2019s status were ignored by the US. A 2012 referendum found 54% of the island\u2019s 3.5 million inhabitants favoured changing the island\u2019s current territorial status. The financial crisis has also injected renewed vigour into the campaigns pushing for American statehood for Puerto Rico and those pushing for independence.Nieves Seise rejected these rival campaigns, denying claims by critics who argue that Puerto Rico had fewer freedoms under Spanish rule. Instead he touted the economic advantages of joining Spain, arguing that benefits such as coming under the EU umbrella would allow Puerto Rico to move forward after nearly a decade of economic stagnation. The island would also be afforded political rights currently denied to them by the US, he said. \u201cRight now, we can\u2019t vote for the president of the United States, we have limited representation.\u201d Related: Economic exodus means two-thirds of Puerto Ricans may soon live in states The group has already managed to secure the backing of some in Spain, with a handful of support groups cropping up in recent years in the cities of M\u00e1laga and Granada. In January, about a dozen supporters in the province of Castell\u00f3n formally launched a group, said Spaniard Cristofer Pons Rodr\u00edguez. \u201cPersonally, I was attracted to the idea of creating a community of citizens that share the Spanish culture,\u201d said the 24-year-old, drawing parallels with the Commonwealth or Francophonie. \u201cIt would be about creating a Hispanic bloc as an alternative to the Anglo-Saxon world, to defend our interests.\u201dAs Spain struggles to shake off the lingering effects of a double-dip recession, Pons Rodr\u00edguez dismissed concerns that taking in Puerto Rico and its $72bn worth of public debt could dampen Spain\u2019s tepid economic recovery. \u201cThis shouldn\u2019t be an impediment to working together,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming issues like debt.\u201d To date the movement has not received any kind of formal response from Spanish authorities. Recently Puerto Rican Iv\u00e1n Arrache called on Spain to take action. \u201cAre they going to leave us to do all the work ourselves?,\u201d he wrote in El Diario de La Marina. \u201cIt takes two to tango.\u201dSpain stands to benefit from taking Puerto Rico into its fold, he said. \u201cDon\u2019t they appreciate the impact this would have against Catalan separatism and how this would help foster the idea of a united Spain?\u201dAfter two years of nurturing the movement in Puerto Rico, he said, it was time to establish whether there is any official interest in the idea from Spain. \u201cSpain needs to give us a token of good faith, even if it\u2019s just symbolic,\u201d he said. \u201cMany of us here are ready to give our all. All we\u2019re asking for is something from the other side.\u201d", "tags": ["Europe", "Puerto Rico", "Spain", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain"},{"date": "2015-08-17T19:15:14Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A beautiful aquatic plant, dating back to the start of the Cretaceous period, is believed by scientists to be the oldest flowering plant on Earth. New analysis of the fossilised remains from central Spain and the Pyrenees show that the plant is about 130 million-years-old, meaning it was around at the same time as feathered dinosaurs. The plant, Montsechia vidalii, resembles the modern-day coontail - commonly used to populate aquariums - and is thought to have grown underwater in shallow lakes. The plant snatches the title of world\u2019s oldest flower from the hands of another ancient plant, Archaefructus sinensis, discovered in 125 million-year-old fossils from Liaoning Province in China. \u201cThe \u2018first flower\u2019 is a bit of a poetic concept, but that aside, we do believe this is the oldest we have discovered so far,\u201d says David Dilcher at Indiana University, who led the analysis. To study the ancient plant, Dilcher and his team slowly dissolved the limestone around more than 1000 fossils. This left them with small fragments of the plant that could then be bleached and their structure examined using powerful microscopes. The plant appears to have had no roots or petals. Its leaves were arranged in two forms: either in a spiral or opposite one another along an axis. The plant sprouted several tiny flowers, each of which contained a single seed. Animals in this time period hadn\u2019t developed any role in the dispersal of seeds, says Dilcher. Instead, the plant is thought to have separate male and female flowers. It seems likely that the seeds were released straight into the water, where they floated off to fertilise another plant. \u201cThis is a fascinating and provocative analysis of the new fossils,\u201d says Sam Brockington, a research fellow in the department of plant sciences at Cambridge University. \u201cIt has always been difficult to say whether the first flowering plants emerged in aquatic conditions, but this paper emphasises how important aquatic environments were for the earliest flowering plants.\u201d Sometime in the middle of the Cretaceous period the diversification of the flowering plant population exploded, developing into the beautiful blooms we know today, as well as influencing the wildlife that evolved alongside. Dilcher says that we wouldn\u2019t be here at all if it weren\u2019t for plants like Montsechia vidalii. \u201cWe are a product of the many stages of evolution that went hand-in-hand with the evolution of flowering plants,\u201d he says. Bernard Gomez of Claude Bernard University, Lyon, and co-author of the paper, which is published today in PNAS, says that there may yet be an even older flowering plant. There\u2019s evidence of pollen dispersed in fossils that are around 140 million years old, he says. One thing is for sure, says Dilcher, \u201cwe need to understand as much as we can about flowering plant evolution because right now we\u2019re facing a world crisis.\u201d Most modern flowering plants need animal pollinators to reproduce, with bees serving that role for many of our most important crops. Yet bees are declining in the US and Europe. \u201cThis plant shows us where it all began,\u201d says Dilcher. \u201cIf we know more about their evolution, we might come across alternative pollinators that are hidden out of sight today but played a role in the past that we could encourage again.\u201d ", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Biology", "Bees", "Dinosaurs"], "title": "\u200bFossilised remains of world\u2019s oldest flower discovered in Spain"},{"date": "2015-07-30T18:39:19Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s Guardia Civil police force will no longer accept donations from a brothel in Navarra, even if the money is put towards a good cause, the country\u2019s minister of the interior has said.The unusual funding arrangement came to light earlier this week when the citizen group Observatory Against Corruption filed a complaint over a donation provided by a local brothel to Guardia Civil agents in Tudela, a city of 35,000 in Navarra. The money was used to throw a celebration dedicated to Our Lady of the Pillar, the patron saint of the Guardia Civil.The group, who noted the close friendship between the owner of the brothel and a high-ranking member of the local Guardia Civil unit, directed their complaint to the central government, demanding that an investigation be carried out.Speaking to reporters in Vitoria on Thursday, minister Jorge Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz said that such donations would no longer be accepted. \u201cWe don\u2019t think this is right, despite the fact that the money is being used for good. We cannot, we should not and we won\u2019t accept donations from an establishment of these characteristics.\u201d He said he had learned of the donation through the press.Despite complaints in recent days that controversial changes to the country\u2019s security laws are being used to crack down on the practice, prostitution in Spain exists in a sort of legal limbo. While not illegal, it is often not regulated in any way.Amaiur, a leftwing political party from the Basque region, said it had put a series of written questions to the governing People\u2019s party, in order to clarify the total amount of the donation, whether the brothel had funded celebrations on other occasions and whether other events had been funded by the brothel for Guardia Civil agents.The Guardia Civil in Navarra said it would seek to immediately end such donations.Previous attempts by the Guardia Civil to pay tribute to its patron saint have also, at times, sparked outcry, such as in 2012, when the Guardia Civil\u2019s highest honour was granted to Zaragoza\u2019s Our Lady of the Pillar. At the time, Fernand\u00e9z D\u00edaz explained that the award was meant to pay tribute to the \u201cdeep roots of the patronage of the Virgin of Pillar, which remains part of the heritage of the Guardia Civil\u201d.", "tags": ["Spain", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Spain cracks down on brothel's donations to police force"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:00:09Z", "country": "spain", "content": "There are, according to current scholarship, 160\u00a0existing portraits by\u00a0Francisco de Goya \u2013 about a third of his painted output. The real number, though, is\u00a0much greater since there are no pure landscapes in Goya\u2019s work, in that everything he ever painted deals with people. In the work of no other great portraitist are a nation\u2019s people, history, traumas, folk traditions and superstitions so comprehensively and relentlessly captured. Titian, Holbein, Van Dyck and Rembrandt were superlative painters of the human face and figure but they made a distinction between their portraiture and their other work. Goya didn\u2019t. Put his work together \u2013 the public and private paintings, the personal drawings and sketches and the unsettling and sinister etching series \u2013 and what you have is a\u00a0portrait in the round of Spain itself.His subject was a good one since Goya lived in interesting times: his lifetime (1746-1828) was a period that saw Spain pass through the ancien regime and the effects of the French Revolution, the Napoleonic wars and the restoration of the monarchy; it was ruled by a succession of authoritarian and liberal governments; and was simultaneously marked by the Enlightenment, fervent Catholicism and a\u00a0widespread belief in the supernatural. Goya went from provincial obscurity to the Madrid court and later self-imposed exile in Bordeaux. And aged 46 he went deaf: as Spain entered its most cacophonic period he couldn\u2019t hear what was going on around him, only see. Related: My highlight: Goya  Related: Renaissance to Goya: Spain's lost art at the British Museum - in pictures People were the constant during these unstable times and he recorded both the faces of those who mattered to Spain and to him \u2013 often they were one and the same. The new exhibition at the National Gallery, Goya: the Portraits, is the first major UK show to look at his portraits alone. As with Rembrandt, the demotion of previously bona fide works (including, in preparation for this exhibition, perhaps the National\u2019s own Do\u00f1a Isabel Porcel) has meant whittling down numbers but, because some 70 works will be gathered together, this show gives a chance not just to trace Goya\u2019s development but examine in depth the types of people he painted and how\u00a0he painted them.The organisers are pitching Goya as\u00a0the \u201cfather of the psychological portrait\u201d, a difficult claim to prove, especially in the light of his statement: \u201cI have had three masters, Nature, Vel\u00e1zquez, and Rembrandt.\u201d Add in Titian, whose works he saw in the royal\u00a0collection in Madrid, and Goya joins a very select group rather than standing on his own. Psychology in portraiture is in the eye of the beholder but in his etchings, for Los Caprichos, for example \u2013 showing folly, witchcraft and superstitions \u2013 it is at the very heart of the matter.Goya was 37 by the time he painted anyone\u2019s face other than his own. Prior\u00a0to that he had been a painter of religious scenes around his home city of Zaragoza (at the Charterhouse of Aula Dei outside the city and in the imposing Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar) and then scenes of everyday life\u00a0for the Royal Tapestry Factory in Madrid. Although he studied under Jos\u00e9 Luz\u00e1n and later Francisco Bayeu, who became his brother-in-law in 1773 when he married Josefa \u201cPepa\u201d Bayeu, Goya remained largely self-taught. In the 1760s he tried twice to be accepted into the Royal Academy of Fine Art but\u00a0was rejected (the first time receiving no votes at all from the academicians), and so to further his artistic education he self-funded a two-year visit to Italy.His work as a portraitist has its origins in the 45 tapestry cartoons he painted after he moved to Madrid in 1775. Although his designs don\u2019t show portraits, they do show types \u2013 the majos and majas who gave Madrid its street swagger, peasants and rich men, courting couples, singers, hunters, children, and young men and women playing blind man\u2019s buff or tossing a\u00a0mannequin into the air. The pictures have a light, rococo palette and the faces are individualised without being those of individuals. But in them Goya practised poses and groupings and a\u00a0way of handling light on and around figures that was to be invaluable.The tapestry designs also show social roles rather than the people inhabiting them, but when it came to\u00a0painting portraits proper, Goya would turn this on its head. His greatest strength as a portraitist is that\u00a0regardless of the status of the sitter, be they\u00a0a\u00a0king and queen, the Duke of Wellington or a doctor or writer, it was the person he showed first and their position second. It was this trait, most apparent in his royal portraiture, that has led him to be seen as satirising the Bourbon monarchy rather than as a painter who depicted what he saw without showing obeisance to the usual flattering conventions. In Robert Hughes\u2019s phrase, he did not \u201cpay reflexive homage to authority\u201d but instead walked a fine line between respect and\u00a0truth.In 1780 Goya was finally elected a member of the Academy and when his first portrait commissions arrived they came from the nobility. In 1783 he painted the Count of Floridablanca, the reforming first minister of Charles III and, in 1784, his breakthrough work, The Family of the Infante Don Luis de\u00a0Borb\u00f3n, which was a\u00a0paean to Vel\u00e1zquez\u2019s Las Meninas. Don Luis (a\u00a0man, according to Casanova, \u201claid \u00e0 faire peur\u201d \u2013 \u201cso ugly it was scary\u201d) was the king\u2019s younger brother, sent into internal exile for taking time off\u00a0during a royal hunting expedition to\u00a0refresh himself with prostitutes placed strategically in the woods by his\u00a0entourage.Goya painted the rou\u00e9 as a reformed character \u2013 an uxorious husband, gathered with key members of his 550-strong household to watch his wife\u00a0Mar\u00eda Teresa have her hair done (Don Luis\u2019s first prospective bride, the king\u2019s daughter Maria Josefa, refused him on the not unreasonable grounds that he was still recovering from venereal disease). It is a candle-lit scene that pulses with intrigue: as well as the Infante (engrossed in a game of\u00a0cards), his wife and their children, Goya showed himself, \u00e0 la Vel\u00e1zquez, at his\u00a0easel; a figure that might be the composer Boccherini; another \u2013 in a\u00a0nice jibe \u2013 seems to be rival painter of\u00a0Goya\u2019s and a third who has been identified as Mar\u00eda Teresa\u2019s lover. For a first full essay in group portraiture it is remarkably daring, both in its technical accomplishment and in the strange and charged mise-en-sc\u00e9ne it depicts.Put his work together and what you have is a portrait in\u00a0the round of\u00a0Spain itselfGoya\u2019s success was rapid; in 1785 he was made deputy director of painting at the Royal Academy (his main message to his students was subversive \u2013 \u201cthere are no rules in painting\u201d) and in 1786 became pintor de c\u00e1mara, required to paint \u201cworks required for royal service\u201d. He immediately spent some of his 15,000-reales salary on a two-wheeled gig (one of only three in Madrid) which he promptly crashed on his first outing. His amour propre untouched, he wrote to his childhood friend Mart\u00edn Zapater: \u201cI have now established an enviable way of living: I do not wait on anyone in antechambers, and if anyone wants anything from me they must come to\u00a0me; I have made myself more in demand and unless it is a person of\u00a0rank or at the request of a friend I\u00a0would do nothing for anyone \u2026\u201d Five years later he blew his own trumpet even more forcibly: \u201cFrom the king downwards everyone knows me.\u201dPart of the reason for his success was that, unlike Gainsborough, for example, he did not resent portraiture as an economically necessary chore that ate away at the time he could devote to higher art. Portraiture fascinated him; it was, after all, part of that \u201csacred science which requires so much study\u201d and his portraits reveal a\u00a0fully engaged artist. There is hardly any repetition in\u00a0his poses (to help, he drew on prints of English portraits as well as classical statuary), he worked hard to give his sitters in repose a sense of latent movement and he defined them by the careful depiction of the space around them. When it came to clothing he allowed himself extraordinary freedom, the frogging on uniforms or\u00a0lace on a\u00a0dress sketched in\u00a0thick impasto rather than being laboriously defined. From close up such three-dimensional scumblings look out of focus but from a distance they coalesce into silks, braiding and gauze. Such varieties of\u00a0technique within a painting keep the\u00a0eye entertained and moving. Related: Happy Halloween: the world's scariest artworks \u2013 in pictures Shortly after the painter\u2019s death his son Javier, the sole child of seven to survive, wrote of his father\u2019s portraits: \u201cThose that he did in one session are much acclaimed. He painted only in one session, sometimes lasting 10 hours, but never as the light was fading and the final touches he would apply at\u00a0night, with artificial light.\u201d A self-portrait of the early 1790s, shows exactly that, the painter silhouetted in front of his easel and wearing a metal band round his hat to hold candles to light those \u201cfinal touches\u201d.Public success was, however, tempered by private sadness. In 1792 and 1793 he suffered a serious illness followed by a cerebral attack \u2013 described by a friend as \u201capoplexy\u201d \u2013 which left him deaf. Electrotherapy treatment did\u00a0not work.\u00a0When in 1798 he painted the liberal statesman Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos in an attitude borrowed from D\u00fcrer\u2019s Melancholia, the painter\u2019s sensitivity towards the man with the weight of Spain on his shoulders was in part reciprocal. Goya had commented on the solicitude shown to him by Jovellanos who made sure he stopped chewing when communicating with the deaf painter and used his hands clearly to gesticulate his thoughts.Deafness was no impediment, though, when in 1794 the Duchess of Alba, the highest aristocrat in the land, \u201cbarged into my studio yesterday to have her face painted\u201d. Makeup duly applied, Goya went on to\u00a0paint several portraits of her. He had\u00a0already painted her husband and mother-in-law \u2013 one of the connected series of extended family commissions that mark his work. Despite rumours, there is no evidence they were lovers (nor is she\u00a0the model for the Naked Maja) but\u00a0rather that he was an honorary member of her household. As\u00a0such he had privileged access and made many intimate sketches of her \u2013 tearing at her\u00a0hair in a fit of rage, teasing her former nanny, tenderly holding her adopted black child \u2013 as well as a pair of bravura full-lengths.One of these shows her in white and the other, which will be at the National Gallery, in black lace with a red sash, pointing to the words \u201cSolo Goya\u201d (\u201cOnly Goya\u201d) written in the sand at her feet. It is a picture that gives the lie to the words of one French visitor to Madrid, who reported pantingly: \u201cThe Duchess of Alba has not a single hair on her head that does not awaken desire. Nothing on earth is as beautiful as she is \u2026\u201d Goya shows her not as a full-on beauty but as a somewhat imperious and physically insistent character. In her will she left numerous bequests to her servants, with one to Goya\u2019s son.\u201cMy work is very simple. My art reveals idealism and truth,\u201d Goya claimed. The truth though is always more apparent than the idealism. In the most important commission of his\u00a0career, for example, the portrait of Charles IV and the royal family of 1800, he eschewed entirely the grandeur of majesty to portray the assembled Bourbons as they appeared \u2013 a motley grouping (a French visitor had likened Charles and his queen Maria Luisa to a butcher and his wife) in fancy clothes. Goya may have been a political liberal but he wouldn\u2019t have jeopardised his hard-won new position as first court painter \u2013 the first Spaniard since Vel\u00e1zquez to hold the role \u2013 in order to score political points at the expense of his patrons.That his sitters didn\u2019t regard the portrait as unflattering was evidenced by succeeding royal commissions, not least his 1815 portrait of Ferdinand VII. Ferdinand himself was physically unprepossessing, tyrannical, vicious and small-minded and that is exactly how Goya shows him. The king, however, looking in Goya\u2019s particular mirror, saw no such characteristics staring back at him.The private side of Goya\u2019s portraiture was a\u00a0world away the public. The contrast between the Ferdinand portrait and the\u00a0remarkable 1820 double portrait showing Goya with Dr\u00a0Arrieta represents a\u00a0moral version of\u00a0the three ages of man \u2013 the 73-year-old painter in the\u00a0throes of a debilitating illness being\u00a0tended with the utmost tenderness by\u00a0his doctor. If Ferdinand represents human malignity and Goya its frailty then Arrieta stands for man\u2019s innate goodness.While not all his portraits are successful (some have a doll-like stiffness), this is what Goya at his best could do: in the guise of representing individuals he showed, without judging, man as a universal being.There is a macabre but appropriate coda to Goya\u2019s story. He died in Bordeaux in 1828. In 1901, when his body was exhumed for transferral back to Spain, the skull was missing. Among the explanations suggested were that it\u00a0was stolen by a phrenologist or taken\u00a0by a medical student who, as an\u00a0experiment, filled it with dried chickpeas which he soaked with water until they expanded and the bones broke. There is also an 1849 painting by\u00a0Dionisio Fierros in the Museo de Zaragoza that purports to show the skull. What happened to it, however, remains a mystery. The painter who got\u00a0inside the heads of so many others eventually lost his own.\u2022 Goya: The Portraits is at the National Gallery, London WC2, from 7 October.", "tags": ["Francisco de Goya", "Painting", "Exhibitions", "National Gallery", "Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "From princes to paupers: how Goya\u2019s portraits tell the story of Spain"},{"date": "2015-09-19T13:00:17Z", "country": "spain", "content": "I like to cut people\u2019s hair. When I was nine years old I used to spend a couple of hours a day washing and cutting hair at my parents\u2019 salon and still, today, I\u2019ll do everyone who lets me \u2013 like Salma Hayek, who is one of my best friends. I\u2019ve done her hair when the power went out in her house, with just a candle. That one really trusts me.Nothing can beat a conversation with a child. The biggest feelings I have ever experienced come from the way my children [Leo, 4, and Luna, 2] look at me. Being a mother is seeing life from a different point of view, as if you were a child again. Even your relationship with nature changes; it\u2019s like you can see a tree through new eyes.Every day, and every year, you get to know yourself a little better, but never even close to knowing all the mysteries about yourself. Sometimes after a painful experience you can look back and start to become friends with the memory of it.Ageing is something to celebrate. When I started getting asked: \u201cHow do you feel about ageing?\u201d I would always pass. How can someone ask you that when you\u2019re 25? There are only good things about it. That\u2019s very much the way we see it in Spain.You can never say thank you too many times. It\u2019s never too much. Gratefulness will always bring you good things.I have some fantastic photos that I will never show to anybody. When I saw the video for Michael Jackson\u2019s \u201cThe Way You Make Me Feel\u201d [in 1987] I loved the woman in it and tried to look like her. I had the most crazy perm.To get to the end of the month was hard work for my parents. We only had the basics, but we had so much love that I\u2019m very grateful for the upbringing I had.I went to America with a return ticket. I thought I was going there for three months [to film The High-Lo Country in 1998] and then I\u2019d go back home. Then I got another part.I love my country, Spain, and I choose to live there, but I\u2019ve always felt like a citizen of the world.It\u2019s the fear of fear that can paralyse you the most. Fear is our worst enemy. It can affect so many decisions, so I always strive for it to not take my freedom away.I wear my father\u2019s ring. I used to have my grandmother\u2019s ring, but it got stolen and you can\u2019t replace that with anything else.As children, my sister Monica and I would lock ourselves in the bathroom with magazines and draw pictures. I don\u2019t feel I\u2019m an expert designer now [the pair have designed collections for Mango and Agent Provocateur], but maybe we were rehearsing for this.I hear so many stories about how naughty I was as a child that maybe there is some truth in it. Pen\u00e9lope and Monica Cruz are designers of Agent Provocateur\u2019s diffusion line, L\u2019Agent by Agent provocateur. A swimwear line launches in November (lagentbyap.com)", "tags": ["Pen\u00e9lope Cruz"], "title": "Pen\u00e9lope Cruz: \u2018I love Spain, but I feel like a citizen of the world\u2019"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-12-21T19:18:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Socialist-led coalition is shaping up to be the most likely to rule Spain as rival politicians laid down ground rules on Monday ahead of what are expected to be marathon political negotiations needed to form the country\u2019s next government. Related: Spanish election: national newcomers end era of two-party dominance The conservative People\u2019s party (PP) won 123 seats in Sunday\u2019s election and 29% of the vote, leaving it a long way short of a majority in the 350-seat legislature. As the results came in, the party leader, Mariano Rajoy, vowed he would try to stay on as prime minister, despite a set of results that left him with few options to do so. \u201cI will try and form a stable government,\u201d Rajoy told cheering supporters on Sunday. \u201cSpain needs stability, security, confidence and trust.\u201dBut with leftwing parties holding the balance of power in Spain\u2019s parliament, the result is likely to mirror recent political events in Portugal, where the conservatives won the October election but fell to a socialist government backed by leftist parties just days later.Billed as Spain\u2019s most vibrant and plural election in recent years, the vote chipped away at the country\u2019s decades of two-party dominance and yielded a result that thrust the country into weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political horse trading.In the coming days and weeks, King Felipe VI, who took over from his embattled father last year, will reach out to all parties to hear their positions and name the party that will have the chance to try and form a government. If the candidate fails to obtain an absolute majority, followed by a simple majority in a vote of confidence, the king must put forward a new candidate. If no government is formed within two months, new elections must be held.On Monday morning, as many in Spain waded through the potential scenarios, the Socialist party ruled out any possibility of backing the PP. \u201cThe Socialists will vote no to Rajoy. We\u2019re going to vote no to the PP,\u201d said C\u00e9sar Luena, one of the party\u2019s senior officials. The Socialists came second in Sunday\u2019s election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Despite a result that ranked as their worst ever, the party is now central to the question of what comes next. \u201cSpaniards voted for change and the left and we\u2019re going to translate that to the confidence vote,\u201d said Luena.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right Anti-austerity party Podemos, which won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, said it would also block any attempt by Rajoy to form a government. \u201cOn no account will Podemos allow the PP to govern,\u201d the leader, Pablo Iglesias, told reporters on Monday, ruling out the possibility of even abstaining during the vote of confidence. \u201cThe PP cannot form part of the future government of this country,\u201d said Iglesias.By contrast, Ciudadanos\u2019s leader, Albert Rivera, said his party would abstain from the confidence vote to allow the PP to form a minority government and urged the Socialists to do the same. \u201cThe Socialists need to show that they\u2019re thinking more about Spain than what\u2019s left of their party,\u201d Rivera told Spanish media on Monday. \u201cSpain cannot allow itself to be Greece. Spain cannot allow itself to be a chaotic country.\u201d In the lead-up to the election, analysts predicted that Ciudadanos would be a key player in propping up a PP minority. The centre-right party won only 40 seats on Sunday, however, not enough to shield the PP from the no votes promised by the Socialists and Podemos. Rivera has consistently said he will not enter any kind of pact with the PP. As a result a Socialist government backed by Podemos seems increasingly likely. Related: The Guardian view on the Spanish elections: the end of an era | Editorial While both parties will find common ground in the appeal for change, the pairing comes with its perils; whereas the Socialists have pushed for constitutional reform to address the issue of Catalan independence, Iglesias said on Monday that a referendum on independence would be crucial for any party to secure Podemos\u2019s support. Both parties will also have to weigh the risk of alienating their voter base, made up of rural, older voters in the case of the Socialists, and for Podemos, voters intent on doing away with the establishment parties. As Podemos ran under coalitions in several regions, any agreement with the Socialists could potentially be complicated by the stamp of approval needed from several other leftist movements, such as Barcelona en Com\u00fa or Comprom\u00eds in Valencia. An alliance of the Socialists and Podemos would likely still need the support of other parties to advance their agenda, whether it be Ciudadanos or regional parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and Artur Mas\u2019s Democratic Convergence party. The necessity of more votes could amplify the importance of the smattering of separatist parties in the parliament and see the Socialists wrestled into concessions on Catalan independence as the price of gaining support. The option of Ciudadanos as a partner is complicated by Rivera\u2019s strong stance in backing Rajoy as leader of the next government.If the Socialists are able to gather enough support to form a government they could find themselves at loggerheads with the country\u2019s senate \u2013 which emerged from Sunday\u2019s election with a PP majority \u2013 as the party tries to push forward initiatives such as constitutional reform.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election On Monday, the PP urged its rivals to take a step back and consider the bigger picture. \u201cI am asking everyone to show responsibility, because the stability of Spain is at stake, progress in the economic recovery is at stake,\u201d PP official Fernando Mart\u00ednez-Maillo told broadcaster Cadena Ser. The messy affair has shone new light on the role of King Felipe. While his father Juan Carlos\u2019s abdication sent tens of thousands of Spaniards into the streets to demand a referendum on the future of the monarchy, polls suggest Felipe\u2019s approval levels have since risen. His growth in popularity has been explained by his careful prudence, with speeches that steer clear of the push for democratic and institutional regeneration in Spain. But Sunday\u2019s election result will likely force the king to wade into the crux of the issue, with the monarch central to what comes next. With Felipe set to deliver his televised Christmas eve speech on Thursday, many will be watching carefully for clues on what the future of the country\u2019s government could look like. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone"], "title": "Spain edging towards Socialist-led coalition as negotiations begin"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-12-21T19:18:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Socialist-led coalition is shaping up to be the most likely to rule Spain as rival politicians laid down ground rules on Monday ahead of what are expected to be marathon political negotiations needed to form the country\u2019s next government. Related: Spanish election: national newcomers end era of two-party dominance The conservative People\u2019s party (PP) won 123 seats in Sunday\u2019s election and 29% of the vote, leaving it a long way short of a majority in the 350-seat legislature. As the results came in, the party leader, Mariano Rajoy, vowed he would try to stay on as prime minister, despite a set of results that left him with few options to do so. \u201cI will try and form a stable government,\u201d Rajoy told cheering supporters on Sunday. \u201cSpain needs stability, security, confidence and trust.\u201dBut with leftwing parties holding the balance of power in Spain\u2019s parliament, the result is likely to mirror recent political events in Portugal, where the conservatives won the October election but fell to a socialist government backed by leftist parties just days later.Billed as Spain\u2019s most vibrant and plural election in recent years, the vote chipped away at the country\u2019s decades of two-party dominance and yielded a result that thrust the country into weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political horse trading.In the coming days and weeks, King Felipe VI, who took over from his embattled father last year, will reach out to all parties to hear their positions and name the party that will have the chance to try and form a government. If the candidate fails to obtain an absolute majority, followed by a simple majority in a vote of confidence, the king must put forward a new candidate. If no government is formed within two months, new elections must be held.On Monday morning, as many in Spain waded through the potential scenarios, the Socialist party ruled out any possibility of backing the PP. \u201cThe Socialists will vote no to Rajoy. We\u2019re going to vote no to the PP,\u201d said C\u00e9sar Luena, one of the party\u2019s senior officials. The Socialists came second in Sunday\u2019s election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Despite a result that ranked as their worst ever, the party is now central to the question of what comes next. \u201cSpaniards voted for change and the left and we\u2019re going to translate that to the confidence vote,\u201d said Luena.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right Anti-austerity party Podemos, which won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, said it would also block any attempt by Rajoy to form a government. \u201cOn no account will Podemos allow the PP to govern,\u201d the leader, Pablo Iglesias, told reporters on Monday, ruling out the possibility of even abstaining during the vote of confidence. \u201cThe PP cannot form part of the future government of this country,\u201d said Iglesias.By contrast, Ciudadanos\u2019s leader, Albert Rivera, said his party would abstain from the confidence vote to allow the PP to form a minority government and urged the Socialists to do the same. \u201cThe Socialists need to show that they\u2019re thinking more about Spain than what\u2019s left of their party,\u201d Rivera told Spanish media on Monday. \u201cSpain cannot allow itself to be Greece. Spain cannot allow itself to be a chaotic country.\u201d In the lead-up to the election, analysts predicted that Ciudadanos would be a key player in propping up a PP minority. The centre-right party won only 40 seats on Sunday, however, not enough to shield the PP from the no votes promised by the Socialists and Podemos. Rivera has consistently said he will not enter any kind of pact with the PP. As a result a Socialist government backed by Podemos seems increasingly likely. Related: The Guardian view on the Spanish elections: the end of an era | Editorial While both parties will find common ground in the appeal for change, the pairing comes with its perils; whereas the Socialists have pushed for constitutional reform to address the issue of Catalan independence, Iglesias said on Monday that a referendum on independence would be crucial for any party to secure Podemos\u2019s support. Both parties will also have to weigh the risk of alienating their voter base, made up of rural, older voters in the case of the Socialists, and for Podemos, voters intent on doing away with the establishment parties. As Podemos ran under coalitions in several regions, any agreement with the Socialists could potentially be complicated by the stamp of approval needed from several other leftist movements, such as Barcelona en Com\u00fa or Comprom\u00eds in Valencia. An alliance of the Socialists and Podemos would likely still need the support of other parties to advance their agenda, whether it be Ciudadanos or regional parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and Artur Mas\u2019s Democratic Convergence party. The necessity of more votes could amplify the importance of the smattering of separatist parties in the parliament and see the Socialists wrestled into concessions on Catalan independence as the price of gaining support. The option of Ciudadanos as a partner is complicated by Rivera\u2019s strong stance in backing Rajoy as leader of the next government.If the Socialists are able to gather enough support to form a government they could find themselves at loggerheads with the country\u2019s senate \u2013 which emerged from Sunday\u2019s election with a PP majority \u2013 as the party tries to push forward initiatives such as constitutional reform.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election On Monday, the PP urged its rivals to take a step back and consider the bigger picture. \u201cI am asking everyone to show responsibility, because the stability of Spain is at stake, progress in the economic recovery is at stake,\u201d PP official Fernando Mart\u00ednez-Maillo told broadcaster Cadena Ser. The messy affair has shone new light on the role of King Felipe. While his father Juan Carlos\u2019s abdication sent tens of thousands of Spaniards into the streets to demand a referendum on the future of the monarchy, polls suggest Felipe\u2019s approval levels have since risen. His growth in popularity has been explained by his careful prudence, with speeches that steer clear of the push for democratic and institutional regeneration in Spain. But Sunday\u2019s election result will likely force the king to wade into the crux of the issue, with the monarch central to what comes next. With Felipe set to deliver his televised Christmas eve speech on Thursday, many will be watching carefully for clues on what the future of the country\u2019s government could look like. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone"], "title": "Spain edging towards Socialist-led coalition as negotiations begin"},{"date": "2015-12-27T00:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Every year before Christmas, when I drive the 400 miles or so home from Madrid to Cadiz, I\u2019m surprised anew by Spain\u2019s beauty, its size and diversity. Flat La Mancha gives way to mountainous Extremadura and then comes the sea in Andaluc\u00eda. The birdwatching is fantastic: on my way down south this time, I saw storks, vultures, eagles and the odd falcon sitting on a pole.I was also reminded of how noisy we are. At a road restaurant in Almaraz, I could barely make myself heard when asking for the key to the toilet. Yes, cliches can make sense: Spaniards are lively and stubborn; they like to make their point sometimes simply by yelling.We all like to think our own country is distinct, but over the past few days, Spain has felt different from the rest of Europe.Our big event takes place on Christmas Eve, Nochebuena, when families gather together to eat and celebrate after the king\u2019s speech at 9pm. This Nochebuena, 40 years after Franco\u2019s death, Felipe VI decided to talk for the first time from the royal palace in central Madrid. The sumptous palace has remained uninhabited since 14 April 1931, when Felipe\u2019s great-grandfather Alfonso XIII was forced to leave the country after the Republican victory in the elections.The king\u2019s decision only added to the extraordinary times that we have been living through. For the past four years of conservative rule, change has been in the air and last weekend citizens stamped change firmly on their votes. The elections dealt a severe blow to bipartidismo, the system that has prevailed since Franco\u2019s death, with the conservative Partido Popular (PP) and socialist Partido Socialista Obrero Espa\u00f1ol (PSOE) taking turns to govern.Last Sunday, the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy won the greatest number of votes but lost his parliamentary majority. His PP, which just four years ago won a landslide victory, lost more than 3\u00a0million votes, securing only 28% of those cast. Pedro S\u00e1nchez, PSOE\u2019s leader, lost more than a million votes, although it\u2019s been only 18 months since he replaced Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the new face in theory replacing the old guard. S\u00e1nchez, however, won only 21% of the vote.Where did those million of \u201clost\u201d votes go? To the left, with Podemos, where pony-tailed Pablo Iglesias, a 37-year-old political scientist, took more than 20% of the vote. And to the centre, with Ciudadanos, where baby-faced Albert Rivera, a 36-year-old Catalan lawyer, ended up in fourth place with nearly 14% of the vote.Why has this happened? A key reason is that PP and PSOE represent a way of doing politics that many Spaniards now deem obsolete and at the root of many of the country\u2019s ills, including chronic corruption. Rajoy\u2019s shaky political standing is also, of course, down to austerity. But it can\u2019t explain S\u00e1nchez\u2019s poor results: he has not been governing, or even leading, his party for most of the past four years.Podemos, a heir of the social protests that swept Spain from May 2011, was founded by a group of university professors, with origins on the far left. But its charismatic leader, Iglesias, has worked hard in the past months to drive Podemos into the mainstream, and he will have a lot to say in my country\u2019s future. He is smart and ambitious, and has learned from what went right and wrong for Syriza in Greece.Ciudadanos is business-friendly and anti-corruption. But, according to a tall tale that\u2019s being put around, big companies (the Ibex 35, the Spanish stock exchange) funded Rivera to stop Podemos taking the whole of the protest vote. The rumour worked well and Ciudadanos failed to meet expectations. Rivera, however, remains an important player in a fragmented political\u00a0scenario.For all the changes, 40 years after Franco Spain still divides almost perfectly along the left-right lines that took us to the 1936 civil war. In parliament, the sum of PP and Ciudadanos seats is 163 while PSOE and Podemos, together, hold 159.But there is more to these numbers than ideology. We are also in the realm of morals. Much in the way that popular discontent led, last year, to the premature abdication of King Juan Carlos, last Sunday Spaniards said \u201cenough\u201d to quite a few things.First of all, to austerity. The economic recovery has been distinctly unequal. London is the new mecca for overqualified young Spaniards \u2013 engineers, architects, doctors. Many are waiters, a grim reminder of those other Spaniards forced to leave in the 1960s. Many families miss their new \u201cexiles\u201d, as Iglesias likes to call them.The country is growing at a 3% rate this year, but unemployment remains at 21%. In some provinces, such as Cadiz, from where I write, unemployment among the under-25s is as high as 69%. This is unbearable.Second, but felt very intesely, is corruption. Political cronyism has grown to a degree that was unknown even under Franco\u2019s rotten regime. PSOE kickstarted this wretched tendency in the 80s under Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez. Under Mariano Rajoy\u2019s PP it has reached its highest levels yet.There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition governmentOnly last week we learned that Rodrigo Rato, a former PP economic minister and a fomer IMF chief, will face charges for using his so-called black credit card to buy both alcohol and religious pieces of art. The card was a freebie from Bankia, the bank he used to head. In June 2012, the European Union had to partially rescue Spain with \u20ac41,000m to stop Bankia\u2019s fall from creating a meltdown in our banking system. This is deeply \u00a0embarrassing.Anger then lies behind the highly fragmented parliament. There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition government. Because of our bloody history, we fear instability. These days, there are two further powerful reasons to shy away from it: Spain is slowly recovering from the economic crisis and it faces the challenge of the independent movement, particularly in Catalonia, where up to two million people do not want to belong to Spain.Most parties agree that there needs to be constitutional reform to include these Spaniards who want to be something else (Basques or Galicians as well as Catalans). But politicians do not agree on what exactly to change. Spain\u2019s unity is regarded as a red line for PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos. The right to decide (or to vote) is another for Podemos and the nationalist parties.A new Spain was born on 20 December 2015. Politicians must now try to master the art of compromise. What\u2019s more, if Spaniards learn at the same time how to lower their voice when talking, political instability will have come to us with a silver lining.Ana Romero is an award-winning political journalist for El Espa\u00f1ol. Her latest book, Final de Partida, on the abdication of King Juan Carlos, is a national bestseller", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Will a brave new Spain rise from the election stalemate?  | Ana Romero"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-12-21T19:18:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Socialist-led coalition is shaping up to be the most likely to rule Spain as rival politicians laid down ground rules on Monday ahead of what are expected to be marathon political negotiations needed to form the country\u2019s next government. Related: Spanish election: national newcomers end era of two-party dominance The conservative People\u2019s party (PP) won 123 seats in Sunday\u2019s election and 29% of the vote, leaving it a long way short of a majority in the 350-seat legislature. As the results came in, the party leader, Mariano Rajoy, vowed he would try to stay on as prime minister, despite a set of results that left him with few options to do so. \u201cI will try and form a stable government,\u201d Rajoy told cheering supporters on Sunday. \u201cSpain needs stability, security, confidence and trust.\u201dBut with leftwing parties holding the balance of power in Spain\u2019s parliament, the result is likely to mirror recent political events in Portugal, where the conservatives won the October election but fell to a socialist government backed by leftist parties just days later.Billed as Spain\u2019s most vibrant and plural election in recent years, the vote chipped away at the country\u2019s decades of two-party dominance and yielded a result that thrust the country into weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political horse trading.In the coming days and weeks, King Felipe VI, who took over from his embattled father last year, will reach out to all parties to hear their positions and name the party that will have the chance to try and form a government. If the candidate fails to obtain an absolute majority, followed by a simple majority in a vote of confidence, the king must put forward a new candidate. If no government is formed within two months, new elections must be held.On Monday morning, as many in Spain waded through the potential scenarios, the Socialist party ruled out any possibility of backing the PP. \u201cThe Socialists will vote no to Rajoy. We\u2019re going to vote no to the PP,\u201d said C\u00e9sar Luena, one of the party\u2019s senior officials. The Socialists came second in Sunday\u2019s election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Despite a result that ranked as their worst ever, the party is now central to the question of what comes next. \u201cSpaniards voted for change and the left and we\u2019re going to translate that to the confidence vote,\u201d said Luena.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right Anti-austerity party Podemos, which won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, said it would also block any attempt by Rajoy to form a government. \u201cOn no account will Podemos allow the PP to govern,\u201d the leader, Pablo Iglesias, told reporters on Monday, ruling out the possibility of even abstaining during the vote of confidence. \u201cThe PP cannot form part of the future government of this country,\u201d said Iglesias.By contrast, Ciudadanos\u2019s leader, Albert Rivera, said his party would abstain from the confidence vote to allow the PP to form a minority government and urged the Socialists to do the same. \u201cThe Socialists need to show that they\u2019re thinking more about Spain than what\u2019s left of their party,\u201d Rivera told Spanish media on Monday. \u201cSpain cannot allow itself to be Greece. Spain cannot allow itself to be a chaotic country.\u201d In the lead-up to the election, analysts predicted that Ciudadanos would be a key player in propping up a PP minority. The centre-right party won only 40 seats on Sunday, however, not enough to shield the PP from the no votes promised by the Socialists and Podemos. Rivera has consistently said he will not enter any kind of pact with the PP. As a result a Socialist government backed by Podemos seems increasingly likely. Related: The Guardian view on the Spanish elections: the end of an era | Editorial While both parties will find common ground in the appeal for change, the pairing comes with its perils; whereas the Socialists have pushed for constitutional reform to address the issue of Catalan independence, Iglesias said on Monday that a referendum on independence would be crucial for any party to secure Podemos\u2019s support. Both parties will also have to weigh the risk of alienating their voter base, made up of rural, older voters in the case of the Socialists, and for Podemos, voters intent on doing away with the establishment parties. As Podemos ran under coalitions in several regions, any agreement with the Socialists could potentially be complicated by the stamp of approval needed from several other leftist movements, such as Barcelona en Com\u00fa or Comprom\u00eds in Valencia. An alliance of the Socialists and Podemos would likely still need the support of other parties to advance their agenda, whether it be Ciudadanos or regional parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and Artur Mas\u2019s Democratic Convergence party. The necessity of more votes could amplify the importance of the smattering of separatist parties in the parliament and see the Socialists wrestled into concessions on Catalan independence as the price of gaining support. The option of Ciudadanos as a partner is complicated by Rivera\u2019s strong stance in backing Rajoy as leader of the next government.If the Socialists are able to gather enough support to form a government they could find themselves at loggerheads with the country\u2019s senate \u2013 which emerged from Sunday\u2019s election with a PP majority \u2013 as the party tries to push forward initiatives such as constitutional reform.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election On Monday, the PP urged its rivals to take a step back and consider the bigger picture. \u201cI am asking everyone to show responsibility, because the stability of Spain is at stake, progress in the economic recovery is at stake,\u201d PP official Fernando Mart\u00ednez-Maillo told broadcaster Cadena Ser. The messy affair has shone new light on the role of King Felipe. While his father Juan Carlos\u2019s abdication sent tens of thousands of Spaniards into the streets to demand a referendum on the future of the monarchy, polls suggest Felipe\u2019s approval levels have since risen. His growth in popularity has been explained by his careful prudence, with speeches that steer clear of the push for democratic and institutional regeneration in Spain. But Sunday\u2019s election result will likely force the king to wade into the crux of the issue, with the monarch central to what comes next. With Felipe set to deliver his televised Christmas eve speech on Thursday, many will be watching carefully for clues on what the future of the country\u2019s government could look like. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone"], "title": "Spain edging towards Socialist-led coalition as negotiations begin"},{"date": "2015-12-27T00:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Every year before Christmas, when I drive the 400 miles or so home from Madrid to Cadiz, I\u2019m surprised anew by Spain\u2019s beauty, its size and diversity. Flat La Mancha gives way to mountainous Extremadura and then comes the sea in Andaluc\u00eda. The birdwatching is fantastic: on my way down south this time, I saw storks, vultures, eagles and the odd falcon sitting on a pole.I was also reminded of how noisy we are. At a road restaurant in Almaraz, I could barely make myself heard when asking for the key to the toilet. Yes, cliches can make sense: Spaniards are lively and stubborn; they like to make their point sometimes simply by yelling.We all like to think our own country is distinct, but over the past few days, Spain has felt different from the rest of Europe.Our big event takes place on Christmas Eve, Nochebuena, when families gather together to eat and celebrate after the king\u2019s speech at 9pm. This Nochebuena, 40 years after Franco\u2019s death, Felipe VI decided to talk for the first time from the royal palace in central Madrid. The sumptous palace has remained uninhabited since 14 April 1931, when Felipe\u2019s great-grandfather Alfonso XIII was forced to leave the country after the Republican victory in the elections.The king\u2019s decision only added to the extraordinary times that we have been living through. For the past four years of conservative rule, change has been in the air and last weekend citizens stamped change firmly on their votes. The elections dealt a severe blow to bipartidismo, the system that has prevailed since Franco\u2019s death, with the conservative Partido Popular (PP) and socialist Partido Socialista Obrero Espa\u00f1ol (PSOE) taking turns to govern.Last Sunday, the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy won the greatest number of votes but lost his parliamentary majority. His PP, which just four years ago won a landslide victory, lost more than 3\u00a0million votes, securing only 28% of those cast. Pedro S\u00e1nchez, PSOE\u2019s leader, lost more than a million votes, although it\u2019s been only 18 months since he replaced Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the new face in theory replacing the old guard. S\u00e1nchez, however, won only 21% of the vote.Where did those million of \u201clost\u201d votes go? To the left, with Podemos, where pony-tailed Pablo Iglesias, a 37-year-old political scientist, took more than 20% of the vote. And to the centre, with Ciudadanos, where baby-faced Albert Rivera, a 36-year-old Catalan lawyer, ended up in fourth place with nearly 14% of the vote.Why has this happened? A key reason is that PP and PSOE represent a way of doing politics that many Spaniards now deem obsolete and at the root of many of the country\u2019s ills, including chronic corruption. Rajoy\u2019s shaky political standing is also, of course, down to austerity. But it can\u2019t explain S\u00e1nchez\u2019s poor results: he has not been governing, or even leading, his party for most of the past four years.Podemos, a heir of the social protests that swept Spain from May 2011, was founded by a group of university professors, with origins on the far left. But its charismatic leader, Iglesias, has worked hard in the past months to drive Podemos into the mainstream, and he will have a lot to say in my country\u2019s future. He is smart and ambitious, and has learned from what went right and wrong for Syriza in Greece.Ciudadanos is business-friendly and anti-corruption. But, according to a tall tale that\u2019s being put around, big companies (the Ibex 35, the Spanish stock exchange) funded Rivera to stop Podemos taking the whole of the protest vote. The rumour worked well and Ciudadanos failed to meet expectations. Rivera, however, remains an important player in a fragmented political\u00a0scenario.For all the changes, 40 years after Franco Spain still divides almost perfectly along the left-right lines that took us to the 1936 civil war. In parliament, the sum of PP and Ciudadanos seats is 163 while PSOE and Podemos, together, hold 159.But there is more to these numbers than ideology. We are also in the realm of morals. Much in the way that popular discontent led, last year, to the premature abdication of King Juan Carlos, last Sunday Spaniards said \u201cenough\u201d to quite a few things.First of all, to austerity. The economic recovery has been distinctly unequal. London is the new mecca for overqualified young Spaniards \u2013 engineers, architects, doctors. Many are waiters, a grim reminder of those other Spaniards forced to leave in the 1960s. Many families miss their new \u201cexiles\u201d, as Iglesias likes to call them.The country is growing at a 3% rate this year, but unemployment remains at 21%. In some provinces, such as Cadiz, from where I write, unemployment among the under-25s is as high as 69%. This is unbearable.Second, but felt very intesely, is corruption. Political cronyism has grown to a degree that was unknown even under Franco\u2019s rotten regime. PSOE kickstarted this wretched tendency in the 80s under Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez. Under Mariano Rajoy\u2019s PP it has reached its highest levels yet.There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition governmentOnly last week we learned that Rodrigo Rato, a former PP economic minister and a fomer IMF chief, will face charges for using his so-called black credit card to buy both alcohol and religious pieces of art. The card was a freebie from Bankia, the bank he used to head. In June 2012, the European Union had to partially rescue Spain with \u20ac41,000m to stop Bankia\u2019s fall from creating a meltdown in our banking system. This is deeply \u00a0embarrassing.Anger then lies behind the highly fragmented parliament. There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition government. Because of our bloody history, we fear instability. These days, there are two further powerful reasons to shy away from it: Spain is slowly recovering from the economic crisis and it faces the challenge of the independent movement, particularly in Catalonia, where up to two million people do not want to belong to Spain.Most parties agree that there needs to be constitutional reform to include these Spaniards who want to be something else (Basques or Galicians as well as Catalans). But politicians do not agree on what exactly to change. Spain\u2019s unity is regarded as a red line for PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos. The right to decide (or to vote) is another for Podemos and the nationalist parties.A new Spain was born on 20 December 2015. Politicians must now try to master the art of compromise. What\u2019s more, if Spaniards learn at the same time how to lower their voice when talking, political instability will have come to us with a silver lining.Ana Romero is an award-winning political journalist for El Espa\u00f1ol. Her latest book, Final de Partida, on the abdication of King Juan Carlos, is a national bestseller", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Will a brave new Spain rise from the election stalemate?  | Ana Romero"},{"date": "2015-12-22T15:39:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s embattled prime minister will meet political rivals in the coming weeks in an attempt to gather enough support to form a government that can lead the country\u2019s new, deeply fragmented parliament.\u201cThe People\u2019s party won the election, which requires that we be the ones to lead the formation of a government,\u201d Mariano Rajoy, the current prime minister, said on Monday. \u201cThe PP has a responsibility and a mandate to launch a process of dialogue and explore the viability of a stable government.\u201d Related: Spain needs broad consensus to go forward after messy election result His party won 123 seats in the election and 29% of the vote, leaving it far from a majority in the 350-seat legislature and with few possibilities for forming a secure government.Rajoy said he would only reach out to parties that promised to defend the unity of Spain, suggesting that Podemos and Catalan separatist parties, who won 17 seats in the election, would be left out of the talks.On Sunday, millions of Spaniards turned their backs on the decades-long dominance of the PP and the Socialists and instead supported national newcomers Podemos and centre-right Ciudadanos, yielding an ambiguous result that has set the stage for weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political wrangling. If parties fail to form a new government from the election result, new elections could be called in the spring.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election The Socialists came second in the election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Podemos won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, while Ciudadanos won 40 seats and 14% of the vote. The political fragmentation looming over the country\u2019s next legislature had to be overcome, said Rajoy. \u201cSpain cannot afford a period of political uncertainty that would backtrack on the progress achieved during these years.\u201dHis remarks came after the Socialists and Podemos both stated they would not back any attempt by Rajoy to lead a PP government, increasing the likelihood of a new government forged out of parties on the left. On Monday, Rajoy said the PP would flex its majority in the country\u2019s senate to stymie any attempts to change the country\u2019s constitution, making it clear that a Socialist-led government would not be able fulfil its promise of reforming the constitution to address the push for independence in Catalonia. \u201cOne will not be able to modify the constitution without the support of the PP, which is very comforting for all Spaniards,\u201d said Rajoy.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right The PP\u2019s promise of dialogue came just as Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar, a former prime minister and current honorary president of the PP, raised the spectre of a party congress in the new year to review Rajoy\u2019s leadership.His suggestion echoed the many analysts who have pointed out that the PP might have a better chance of reaching agreement with other parties if it changed leadership. \u201cThis is a difficult time for Spain and for the PP,\u201d said Aznar, alluding to the general election result that left the PP with a third fewer seats than after the previous election in 2011. \u201cNobody can doubt that the evolution of the party requires profound reflection,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe"], "title": "Rajoy to start coalition talks as Spain faces political fragmentation"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-12-21T19:18:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Socialist-led coalition is shaping up to be the most likely to rule Spain as rival politicians laid down ground rules on Monday ahead of what are expected to be marathon political negotiations needed to form the country\u2019s next government. Related: Spanish election: national newcomers end era of two-party dominance The conservative People\u2019s party (PP) won 123 seats in Sunday\u2019s election and 29% of the vote, leaving it a long way short of a majority in the 350-seat legislature. As the results came in, the party leader, Mariano Rajoy, vowed he would try to stay on as prime minister, despite a set of results that left him with few options to do so. \u201cI will try and form a stable government,\u201d Rajoy told cheering supporters on Sunday. \u201cSpain needs stability, security, confidence and trust.\u201dBut with leftwing parties holding the balance of power in Spain\u2019s parliament, the result is likely to mirror recent political events in Portugal, where the conservatives won the October election but fell to a socialist government backed by leftist parties just days later.Billed as Spain\u2019s most vibrant and plural election in recent years, the vote chipped away at the country\u2019s decades of two-party dominance and yielded a result that thrust the country into weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political horse trading.In the coming days and weeks, King Felipe VI, who took over from his embattled father last year, will reach out to all parties to hear their positions and name the party that will have the chance to try and form a government. If the candidate fails to obtain an absolute majority, followed by a simple majority in a vote of confidence, the king must put forward a new candidate. If no government is formed within two months, new elections must be held.On Monday morning, as many in Spain waded through the potential scenarios, the Socialist party ruled out any possibility of backing the PP. \u201cThe Socialists will vote no to Rajoy. We\u2019re going to vote no to the PP,\u201d said C\u00e9sar Luena, one of the party\u2019s senior officials. The Socialists came second in Sunday\u2019s election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Despite a result that ranked as their worst ever, the party is now central to the question of what comes next. \u201cSpaniards voted for change and the left and we\u2019re going to translate that to the confidence vote,\u201d said Luena.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right Anti-austerity party Podemos, which won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, said it would also block any attempt by Rajoy to form a government. \u201cOn no account will Podemos allow the PP to govern,\u201d the leader, Pablo Iglesias, told reporters on Monday, ruling out the possibility of even abstaining during the vote of confidence. \u201cThe PP cannot form part of the future government of this country,\u201d said Iglesias.By contrast, Ciudadanos\u2019s leader, Albert Rivera, said his party would abstain from the confidence vote to allow the PP to form a minority government and urged the Socialists to do the same. \u201cThe Socialists need to show that they\u2019re thinking more about Spain than what\u2019s left of their party,\u201d Rivera told Spanish media on Monday. \u201cSpain cannot allow itself to be Greece. Spain cannot allow itself to be a chaotic country.\u201d In the lead-up to the election, analysts predicted that Ciudadanos would be a key player in propping up a PP minority. The centre-right party won only 40 seats on Sunday, however, not enough to shield the PP from the no votes promised by the Socialists and Podemos. Rivera has consistently said he will not enter any kind of pact with the PP. As a result a Socialist government backed by Podemos seems increasingly likely. Related: The Guardian view on the Spanish elections: the end of an era | Editorial While both parties will find common ground in the appeal for change, the pairing comes with its perils; whereas the Socialists have pushed for constitutional reform to address the issue of Catalan independence, Iglesias said on Monday that a referendum on independence would be crucial for any party to secure Podemos\u2019s support. Both parties will also have to weigh the risk of alienating their voter base, made up of rural, older voters in the case of the Socialists, and for Podemos, voters intent on doing away with the establishment parties. As Podemos ran under coalitions in several regions, any agreement with the Socialists could potentially be complicated by the stamp of approval needed from several other leftist movements, such as Barcelona en Com\u00fa or Comprom\u00eds in Valencia. An alliance of the Socialists and Podemos would likely still need the support of other parties to advance their agenda, whether it be Ciudadanos or regional parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and Artur Mas\u2019s Democratic Convergence party. The necessity of more votes could amplify the importance of the smattering of separatist parties in the parliament and see the Socialists wrestled into concessions on Catalan independence as the price of gaining support. The option of Ciudadanos as a partner is complicated by Rivera\u2019s strong stance in backing Rajoy as leader of the next government.If the Socialists are able to gather enough support to form a government they could find themselves at loggerheads with the country\u2019s senate \u2013 which emerged from Sunday\u2019s election with a PP majority \u2013 as the party tries to push forward initiatives such as constitutional reform.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election On Monday, the PP urged its rivals to take a step back and consider the bigger picture. \u201cI am asking everyone to show responsibility, because the stability of Spain is at stake, progress in the economic recovery is at stake,\u201d PP official Fernando Mart\u00ednez-Maillo told broadcaster Cadena Ser. The messy affair has shone new light on the role of King Felipe. While his father Juan Carlos\u2019s abdication sent tens of thousands of Spaniards into the streets to demand a referendum on the future of the monarchy, polls suggest Felipe\u2019s approval levels have since risen. His growth in popularity has been explained by his careful prudence, with speeches that steer clear of the push for democratic and institutional regeneration in Spain. But Sunday\u2019s election result will likely force the king to wade into the crux of the issue, with the monarch central to what comes next. With Felipe set to deliver his televised Christmas eve speech on Thursday, many will be watching carefully for clues on what the future of the country\u2019s government could look like. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone"], "title": "Spain edging towards Socialist-led coalition as negotiations begin"},{"date": "2015-12-27T00:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Every year before Christmas, when I drive the 400 miles or so home from Madrid to Cadiz, I\u2019m surprised anew by Spain\u2019s beauty, its size and diversity. Flat La Mancha gives way to mountainous Extremadura and then comes the sea in Andaluc\u00eda. The birdwatching is fantastic: on my way down south this time, I saw storks, vultures, eagles and the odd falcon sitting on a pole.I was also reminded of how noisy we are. At a road restaurant in Almaraz, I could barely make myself heard when asking for the key to the toilet. Yes, cliches can make sense: Spaniards are lively and stubborn; they like to make their point sometimes simply by yelling.We all like to think our own country is distinct, but over the past few days, Spain has felt different from the rest of Europe.Our big event takes place on Christmas Eve, Nochebuena, when families gather together to eat and celebrate after the king\u2019s speech at 9pm. This Nochebuena, 40 years after Franco\u2019s death, Felipe VI decided to talk for the first time from the royal palace in central Madrid. The sumptous palace has remained uninhabited since 14 April 1931, when Felipe\u2019s great-grandfather Alfonso XIII was forced to leave the country after the Republican victory in the elections.The king\u2019s decision only added to the extraordinary times that we have been living through. For the past four years of conservative rule, change has been in the air and last weekend citizens stamped change firmly on their votes. The elections dealt a severe blow to bipartidismo, the system that has prevailed since Franco\u2019s death, with the conservative Partido Popular (PP) and socialist Partido Socialista Obrero Espa\u00f1ol (PSOE) taking turns to govern.Last Sunday, the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy won the greatest number of votes but lost his parliamentary majority. His PP, which just four years ago won a landslide victory, lost more than 3\u00a0million votes, securing only 28% of those cast. Pedro S\u00e1nchez, PSOE\u2019s leader, lost more than a million votes, although it\u2019s been only 18 months since he replaced Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the new face in theory replacing the old guard. S\u00e1nchez, however, won only 21% of the vote.Where did those million of \u201clost\u201d votes go? To the left, with Podemos, where pony-tailed Pablo Iglesias, a 37-year-old political scientist, took more than 20% of the vote. And to the centre, with Ciudadanos, where baby-faced Albert Rivera, a 36-year-old Catalan lawyer, ended up in fourth place with nearly 14% of the vote.Why has this happened? A key reason is that PP and PSOE represent a way of doing politics that many Spaniards now deem obsolete and at the root of many of the country\u2019s ills, including chronic corruption. Rajoy\u2019s shaky political standing is also, of course, down to austerity. But it can\u2019t explain S\u00e1nchez\u2019s poor results: he has not been governing, or even leading, his party for most of the past four years.Podemos, a heir of the social protests that swept Spain from May 2011, was founded by a group of university professors, with origins on the far left. But its charismatic leader, Iglesias, has worked hard in the past months to drive Podemos into the mainstream, and he will have a lot to say in my country\u2019s future. He is smart and ambitious, and has learned from what went right and wrong for Syriza in Greece.Ciudadanos is business-friendly and anti-corruption. But, according to a tall tale that\u2019s being put around, big companies (the Ibex 35, the Spanish stock exchange) funded Rivera to stop Podemos taking the whole of the protest vote. The rumour worked well and Ciudadanos failed to meet expectations. Rivera, however, remains an important player in a fragmented political\u00a0scenario.For all the changes, 40 years after Franco Spain still divides almost perfectly along the left-right lines that took us to the 1936 civil war. In parliament, the sum of PP and Ciudadanos seats is 163 while PSOE and Podemos, together, hold 159.But there is more to these numbers than ideology. We are also in the realm of morals. Much in the way that popular discontent led, last year, to the premature abdication of King Juan Carlos, last Sunday Spaniards said \u201cenough\u201d to quite a few things.First of all, to austerity. The economic recovery has been distinctly unequal. London is the new mecca for overqualified young Spaniards \u2013 engineers, architects, doctors. Many are waiters, a grim reminder of those other Spaniards forced to leave in the 1960s. Many families miss their new \u201cexiles\u201d, as Iglesias likes to call them.The country is growing at a 3% rate this year, but unemployment remains at 21%. In some provinces, such as Cadiz, from where I write, unemployment among the under-25s is as high as 69%. This is unbearable.Second, but felt very intesely, is corruption. Political cronyism has grown to a degree that was unknown even under Franco\u2019s rotten regime. PSOE kickstarted this wretched tendency in the 80s under Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez. Under Mariano Rajoy\u2019s PP it has reached its highest levels yet.There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition governmentOnly last week we learned that Rodrigo Rato, a former PP economic minister and a fomer IMF chief, will face charges for using his so-called black credit card to buy both alcohol and religious pieces of art. The card was a freebie from Bankia, the bank he used to head. In June 2012, the European Union had to partially rescue Spain with \u20ac41,000m to stop Bankia\u2019s fall from creating a meltdown in our banking system. This is deeply \u00a0embarrassing.Anger then lies behind the highly fragmented parliament. There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition government. Because of our bloody history, we fear instability. These days, there are two further powerful reasons to shy away from it: Spain is slowly recovering from the economic crisis and it faces the challenge of the independent movement, particularly in Catalonia, where up to two million people do not want to belong to Spain.Most parties agree that there needs to be constitutional reform to include these Spaniards who want to be something else (Basques or Galicians as well as Catalans). But politicians do not agree on what exactly to change. Spain\u2019s unity is regarded as a red line for PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos. The right to decide (or to vote) is another for Podemos and the nationalist parties.A new Spain was born on 20 December 2015. Politicians must now try to master the art of compromise. What\u2019s more, if Spaniards learn at the same time how to lower their voice when talking, political instability will have come to us with a silver lining.Ana Romero is an award-winning political journalist for El Espa\u00f1ol. Her latest book, Final de Partida, on the abdication of King Juan Carlos, is a national bestseller", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Will a brave new Spain rise from the election stalemate?  | Ana Romero"},{"date": "2015-12-22T15:39:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s embattled prime minister will meet political rivals in the coming weeks in an attempt to gather enough support to form a government that can lead the country\u2019s new, deeply fragmented parliament.\u201cThe People\u2019s party won the election, which requires that we be the ones to lead the formation of a government,\u201d Mariano Rajoy, the current prime minister, said on Monday. \u201cThe PP has a responsibility and a mandate to launch a process of dialogue and explore the viability of a stable government.\u201d Related: Spain needs broad consensus to go forward after messy election result His party won 123 seats in the election and 29% of the vote, leaving it far from a majority in the 350-seat legislature and with few possibilities for forming a secure government.Rajoy said he would only reach out to parties that promised to defend the unity of Spain, suggesting that Podemos and Catalan separatist parties, who won 17 seats in the election, would be left out of the talks.On Sunday, millions of Spaniards turned their backs on the decades-long dominance of the PP and the Socialists and instead supported national newcomers Podemos and centre-right Ciudadanos, yielding an ambiguous result that has set the stage for weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political wrangling. If parties fail to form a new government from the election result, new elections could be called in the spring.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election The Socialists came second in the election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Podemos won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, while Ciudadanos won 40 seats and 14% of the vote. The political fragmentation looming over the country\u2019s next legislature had to be overcome, said Rajoy. \u201cSpain cannot afford a period of political uncertainty that would backtrack on the progress achieved during these years.\u201dHis remarks came after the Socialists and Podemos both stated they would not back any attempt by Rajoy to lead a PP government, increasing the likelihood of a new government forged out of parties on the left. On Monday, Rajoy said the PP would flex its majority in the country\u2019s senate to stymie any attempts to change the country\u2019s constitution, making it clear that a Socialist-led government would not be able fulfil its promise of reforming the constitution to address the push for independence in Catalonia. \u201cOne will not be able to modify the constitution without the support of the PP, which is very comforting for all Spaniards,\u201d said Rajoy.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right The PP\u2019s promise of dialogue came just as Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar, a former prime minister and current honorary president of the PP, raised the spectre of a party congress in the new year to review Rajoy\u2019s leadership.His suggestion echoed the many analysts who have pointed out that the PP might have a better chance of reaching agreement with other parties if it changed leadership. \u201cThis is a difficult time for Spain and for the PP,\u201d said Aznar, alluding to the general election result that left the PP with a third fewer seats than after the previous election in 2011. \u201cNobody can doubt that the evolution of the party requires profound reflection,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe"], "title": "Rajoy to start coalition talks as Spain faces political fragmentation"},{"date": "2015-12-21T11:57:34Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Newcomers Podemos and Ciudadanos will play a crucial role in upcoming coalition talks as the ruling People\u2019s party (PP) won the most seats in Sunday\u2019s general election but fell short of a clear majority. Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election Having secured only 129 seats out of the 50-seat legislature, PP will have to reach out to other parties to be able to govern. An alternative would be a coalition government between the Socialists, Podemos and Ciudadanos.We\u2019d like to know what the current mood in Spain is like. How did you vote? Are you happy with the result? What do you think will be the result of the coalition talks? What are your hopes and concerns for the future? We\u2019ll feature some of your stories on the site.You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "What's the mood in Spain following the election?"},{"date": "2015-11-29T21:30:10Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Residents of Madrid became the latest to have their daily lives disrupted by the failure to control air pollution. New emergency laws were enacted for the first time in mid-November following a finding by the EU commission that the city\u2019s air quality plans were insufficient. Nitrogen dioxide reached almost double the World Health Organisation guidelines in central residential areas during still weather on 12 and 13 November. Urban motorway speeds were reduced from 80-90kph to 70kph (44mph) and city centre parking was restricted to residents.The cap of polluted air that settles over Madrid is nicknamed la boina (the beret) but the city is not alone in having air pollution problems. Nitrogen dioxide limits were set in 1999 to be met by 2010 but the failure to clean diesel exhausts in real-world driving means that cities throughout Europe have yet to reach compliance.Madrid\u2019s emergency plans also include increased (and free) public transport. Although this means more buses, Scandinavian and London tests show that modern buses can emit less nitrogen oxides than diesel cars. This is especially the case when buses are full. At these times bus engines work harder but the hotter exhaust provides more energy for chemical reactions to scrub pollution. These Scandinavian tests also show that diesel cars driven in cold weather (-7c) produce around three times more nitrogen oxides than they do in summer temperatures (23c). This will make it even harder for northern European cities to control their wintertime smog without restricting diesel cars.", "tags": ["Pollution", "Spain", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "World Pollutionwatch: Pain in Spain"},{"date": "2015-12-21T19:18:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "A Socialist-led coalition is shaping up to be the most likely to rule Spain as rival politicians laid down ground rules on Monday ahead of what are expected to be marathon political negotiations needed to form the country\u2019s next government. Related: Spanish election: national newcomers end era of two-party dominance The conservative People\u2019s party (PP) won 123 seats in Sunday\u2019s election and 29% of the vote, leaving it a long way short of a majority in the 350-seat legislature. As the results came in, the party leader, Mariano Rajoy, vowed he would try to stay on as prime minister, despite a set of results that left him with few options to do so. \u201cI will try and form a stable government,\u201d Rajoy told cheering supporters on Sunday. \u201cSpain needs stability, security, confidence and trust.\u201dBut with leftwing parties holding the balance of power in Spain\u2019s parliament, the result is likely to mirror recent political events in Portugal, where the conservatives won the October election but fell to a socialist government backed by leftist parties just days later.Billed as Spain\u2019s most vibrant and plural election in recent years, the vote chipped away at the country\u2019s decades of two-party dominance and yielded a result that thrust the country into weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political horse trading.In the coming days and weeks, King Felipe VI, who took over from his embattled father last year, will reach out to all parties to hear their positions and name the party that will have the chance to try and form a government. If the candidate fails to obtain an absolute majority, followed by a simple majority in a vote of confidence, the king must put forward a new candidate. If no government is formed within two months, new elections must be held.On Monday morning, as many in Spain waded through the potential scenarios, the Socialist party ruled out any possibility of backing the PP. \u201cThe Socialists will vote no to Rajoy. We\u2019re going to vote no to the PP,\u201d said C\u00e9sar Luena, one of the party\u2019s senior officials. The Socialists came second in Sunday\u2019s election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Despite a result that ranked as their worst ever, the party is now central to the question of what comes next. \u201cSpaniards voted for change and the left and we\u2019re going to translate that to the confidence vote,\u201d said Luena.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right Anti-austerity party Podemos, which won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, said it would also block any attempt by Rajoy to form a government. \u201cOn no account will Podemos allow the PP to govern,\u201d the leader, Pablo Iglesias, told reporters on Monday, ruling out the possibility of even abstaining during the vote of confidence. \u201cThe PP cannot form part of the future government of this country,\u201d said Iglesias.By contrast, Ciudadanos\u2019s leader, Albert Rivera, said his party would abstain from the confidence vote to allow the PP to form a minority government and urged the Socialists to do the same. \u201cThe Socialists need to show that they\u2019re thinking more about Spain than what\u2019s left of their party,\u201d Rivera told Spanish media on Monday. \u201cSpain cannot allow itself to be Greece. Spain cannot allow itself to be a chaotic country.\u201d In the lead-up to the election, analysts predicted that Ciudadanos would be a key player in propping up a PP minority. The centre-right party won only 40 seats on Sunday, however, not enough to shield the PP from the no votes promised by the Socialists and Podemos. Rivera has consistently said he will not enter any kind of pact with the PP. As a result a Socialist government backed by Podemos seems increasingly likely. Related: The Guardian view on the Spanish elections: the end of an era | Editorial While both parties will find common ground in the appeal for change, the pairing comes with its perils; whereas the Socialists have pushed for constitutional reform to address the issue of Catalan independence, Iglesias said on Monday that a referendum on independence would be crucial for any party to secure Podemos\u2019s support. Both parties will also have to weigh the risk of alienating their voter base, made up of rural, older voters in the case of the Socialists, and for Podemos, voters intent on doing away with the establishment parties. As Podemos ran under coalitions in several regions, any agreement with the Socialists could potentially be complicated by the stamp of approval needed from several other leftist movements, such as Barcelona en Com\u00fa or Comprom\u00eds in Valencia. An alliance of the Socialists and Podemos would likely still need the support of other parties to advance their agenda, whether it be Ciudadanos or regional parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and Artur Mas\u2019s Democratic Convergence party. The necessity of more votes could amplify the importance of the smattering of separatist parties in the parliament and see the Socialists wrestled into concessions on Catalan independence as the price of gaining support. The option of Ciudadanos as a partner is complicated by Rivera\u2019s strong stance in backing Rajoy as leader of the next government.If the Socialists are able to gather enough support to form a government they could find themselves at loggerheads with the country\u2019s senate \u2013 which emerged from Sunday\u2019s election with a PP majority \u2013 as the party tries to push forward initiatives such as constitutional reform.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election On Monday, the PP urged its rivals to take a step back and consider the bigger picture. \u201cI am asking everyone to show responsibility, because the stability of Spain is at stake, progress in the economic recovery is at stake,\u201d PP official Fernando Mart\u00ednez-Maillo told broadcaster Cadena Ser. The messy affair has shone new light on the role of King Felipe. While his father Juan Carlos\u2019s abdication sent tens of thousands of Spaniards into the streets to demand a referendum on the future of the monarchy, polls suggest Felipe\u2019s approval levels have since risen. His growth in popularity has been explained by his careful prudence, with speeches that steer clear of the push for democratic and institutional regeneration in Spain. But Sunday\u2019s election result will likely force the king to wade into the crux of the issue, with the monarch central to what comes next. With Felipe set to deliver his televised Christmas eve speech on Thursday, many will be watching carefully for clues on what the future of the country\u2019s government could look like. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone"], "title": "Spain edging towards Socialist-led coalition as negotiations begin"},{"date": "2015-12-27T00:05:03Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Every year before Christmas, when I drive the 400 miles or so home from Madrid to Cadiz, I\u2019m surprised anew by Spain\u2019s beauty, its size and diversity. Flat La Mancha gives way to mountainous Extremadura and then comes the sea in Andaluc\u00eda. The birdwatching is fantastic: on my way down south this time, I saw storks, vultures, eagles and the odd falcon sitting on a pole.I was also reminded of how noisy we are. At a road restaurant in Almaraz, I could barely make myself heard when asking for the key to the toilet. Yes, cliches can make sense: Spaniards are lively and stubborn; they like to make their point sometimes simply by yelling.We all like to think our own country is distinct, but over the past few days, Spain has felt different from the rest of Europe.Our big event takes place on Christmas Eve, Nochebuena, when families gather together to eat and celebrate after the king\u2019s speech at 9pm. This Nochebuena, 40 years after Franco\u2019s death, Felipe VI decided to talk for the first time from the royal palace in central Madrid. The sumptous palace has remained uninhabited since 14 April 1931, when Felipe\u2019s great-grandfather Alfonso XIII was forced to leave the country after the Republican victory in the elections.The king\u2019s decision only added to the extraordinary times that we have been living through. For the past four years of conservative rule, change has been in the air and last weekend citizens stamped change firmly on their votes. The elections dealt a severe blow to bipartidismo, the system that has prevailed since Franco\u2019s death, with the conservative Partido Popular (PP) and socialist Partido Socialista Obrero Espa\u00f1ol (PSOE) taking turns to govern.Last Sunday, the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy won the greatest number of votes but lost his parliamentary majority. His PP, which just four years ago won a landslide victory, lost more than 3\u00a0million votes, securing only 28% of those cast. Pedro S\u00e1nchez, PSOE\u2019s leader, lost more than a million votes, although it\u2019s been only 18 months since he replaced Alfredo P\u00e9rez Rubalcaba, the new face in theory replacing the old guard. S\u00e1nchez, however, won only 21% of the vote.Where did those million of \u201clost\u201d votes go? To the left, with Podemos, where pony-tailed Pablo Iglesias, a 37-year-old political scientist, took more than 20% of the vote. And to the centre, with Ciudadanos, where baby-faced Albert Rivera, a 36-year-old Catalan lawyer, ended up in fourth place with nearly 14% of the vote.Why has this happened? A key reason is that PP and PSOE represent a way of doing politics that many Spaniards now deem obsolete and at the root of many of the country\u2019s ills, including chronic corruption. Rajoy\u2019s shaky political standing is also, of course, down to austerity. But it can\u2019t explain S\u00e1nchez\u2019s poor results: he has not been governing, or even leading, his party for most of the past four years.Podemos, a heir of the social protests that swept Spain from May 2011, was founded by a group of university professors, with origins on the far left. But its charismatic leader, Iglesias, has worked hard in the past months to drive Podemos into the mainstream, and he will have a lot to say in my country\u2019s future. He is smart and ambitious, and has learned from what went right and wrong for Syriza in Greece.Ciudadanos is business-friendly and anti-corruption. But, according to a tall tale that\u2019s being put around, big companies (the Ibex 35, the Spanish stock exchange) funded Rivera to stop Podemos taking the whole of the protest vote. The rumour worked well and Ciudadanos failed to meet expectations. Rivera, however, remains an important player in a fragmented political\u00a0scenario.For all the changes, 40 years after Franco Spain still divides almost perfectly along the left-right lines that took us to the 1936 civil war. In parliament, the sum of PP and Ciudadanos seats is 163 while PSOE and Podemos, together, hold 159.But there is more to these numbers than ideology. We are also in the realm of morals. Much in the way that popular discontent led, last year, to the premature abdication of King Juan Carlos, last Sunday Spaniards said \u201cenough\u201d to quite a few things.First of all, to austerity. The economic recovery has been distinctly unequal. London is the new mecca for overqualified young Spaniards \u2013 engineers, architects, doctors. Many are waiters, a grim reminder of those other Spaniards forced to leave in the 1960s. Many families miss their new \u201cexiles\u201d, as Iglesias likes to call them.The country is growing at a 3% rate this year, but unemployment remains at 21%. In some provinces, such as Cadiz, from where I write, unemployment among the under-25s is as high as 69%. This is unbearable.Second, but felt very intesely, is corruption. Political cronyism has grown to a degree that was unknown even under Franco\u2019s rotten regime. PSOE kickstarted this wretched tendency in the 80s under Felipe Gonz\u00e1lez. Under Mariano Rajoy\u2019s PP it has reached its highest levels yet.There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition governmentOnly last week we learned that Rodrigo Rato, a former PP economic minister and a fomer IMF chief, will face charges for using his so-called black credit card to buy both alcohol and religious pieces of art. The card was a freebie from Bankia, the bank he used to head. In June 2012, the European Union had to partially rescue Spain with \u20ac41,000m to stop Bankia\u2019s fall from creating a meltdown in our banking system. This is deeply \u00a0embarrassing.Anger then lies behind the highly fragmented parliament. There will be weeks of uncertainty as politicians try to form a coalition government. Because of our bloody history, we fear instability. These days, there are two further powerful reasons to shy away from it: Spain is slowly recovering from the economic crisis and it faces the challenge of the independent movement, particularly in Catalonia, where up to two million people do not want to belong to Spain.Most parties agree that there needs to be constitutional reform to include these Spaniards who want to be something else (Basques or Galicians as well as Catalans). But politicians do not agree on what exactly to change. Spain\u2019s unity is regarded as a red line for PP, PSOE and Ciudadanos. The right to decide (or to vote) is another for Podemos and the nationalist parties.A new Spain was born on 20 December 2015. Politicians must now try to master the art of compromise. What\u2019s more, if Spaniards learn at the same time how to lower their voice when talking, political instability will have come to us with a silver lining.Ana Romero is an award-winning political journalist for El Espa\u00f1ol. Her latest book, Final de Partida, on the abdication of King Juan Carlos, is a national bestseller", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Will a brave new Spain rise from the election stalemate?  | Ana Romero"},{"date": "2015-12-22T15:39:16Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spain\u2019s embattled prime minister will meet political rivals in the coming weeks in an attempt to gather enough support to form a government that can lead the country\u2019s new, deeply fragmented parliament.\u201cThe People\u2019s party won the election, which requires that we be the ones to lead the formation of a government,\u201d Mariano Rajoy, the current prime minister, said on Monday. \u201cThe PP has a responsibility and a mandate to launch a process of dialogue and explore the viability of a stable government.\u201d Related: Spain needs broad consensus to go forward after messy election result His party won 123 seats in the election and 29% of the vote, leaving it far from a majority in the 350-seat legislature and with few possibilities for forming a secure government.Rajoy said he would only reach out to parties that promised to defend the unity of Spain, suggesting that Podemos and Catalan separatist parties, who won 17 seats in the election, would be left out of the talks.On Sunday, millions of Spaniards turned their backs on the decades-long dominance of the PP and the Socialists and instead supported national newcomers Podemos and centre-right Ciudadanos, yielding an ambiguous result that has set the stage for weeks \u2013 if not months \u2013 of political wrangling. If parties fail to form a new government from the election result, new elections could be called in the spring.  Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election The Socialists came second in the election, earning 90 seats and 22% of the vote. Podemos won 69 seats and 21% of the vote, while Ciudadanos won 40 seats and 14% of the vote. The political fragmentation looming over the country\u2019s next legislature had to be overcome, said Rajoy. \u201cSpain cannot afford a period of political uncertainty that would backtrack on the progress achieved during these years.\u201dHis remarks came after the Socialists and Podemos both stated they would not back any attempt by Rajoy to lead a PP government, increasing the likelihood of a new government forged out of parties on the left. On Monday, Rajoy said the PP would flex its majority in the country\u2019s senate to stymie any attempts to change the country\u2019s constitution, making it clear that a Socialist-led government would not be able fulfil its promise of reforming the constitution to address the push for independence in Catalonia. \u201cOne will not be able to modify the constitution without the support of the PP, which is very comforting for all Spaniards,\u201d said Rajoy.  Related: Podemos: how Europe\u2019s political centre is being eaten by the radical left and nationalist right The PP\u2019s promise of dialogue came just as Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Aznar, a former prime minister and current honorary president of the PP, raised the spectre of a party congress in the new year to review Rajoy\u2019s leadership.His suggestion echoed the many analysts who have pointed out that the PP might have a better chance of reaching agreement with other parties if it changed leadership. \u201cThis is a difficult time for Spain and for the PP,\u201d said Aznar, alluding to the general election result that left the PP with a third fewer seats than after the previous election in 2011. \u201cNobody can doubt that the evolution of the party requires profound reflection,\u201d he added.", "tags": ["Spain", "Mariano Rajoy", "Podemos", "Europe"], "title": "Rajoy to start coalition talks as Spain faces political fragmentation"},{"date": "2015-12-21T11:57:34Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Newcomers Podemos and Ciudadanos will play a crucial role in upcoming coalition talks as the ruling People\u2019s party (PP) won the most seats in Sunday\u2019s general election but fell short of a clear majority. Related: 'We are in uncharted waters': readers react to the Spanish general election Having secured only 129 seats out of the 50-seat legislature, PP will have to reach out to other parties to be able to govern. An alternative would be a coalition government between the Socialists, Podemos and Ciudadanos.We\u2019d like to know what the current mood in Spain is like. How did you vote? Are you happy with the result? What do you think will be the result of the coalition talks? What are your hopes and concerns for the future? We\u2019ll feature some of your stories on the site.You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Spain", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "What's the mood in Spain following the election?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T11:43:20Z", "country": "spain", "content": "Spanish authorities are struggling to dispose of five million tyres dumped on a site close to a housing development north of Toledo.The 90,000 tonnes of tyres that have been dumped there since 2002 cover 117,000 square metres straddling the Madrid and Castilla-La Mancha regional boundaries. The dump, the largest in Europe, lies 400 metres from the El Qui\u00f1on housing development, one of the most notorious of the housing boom. Only about 1,000 of the planned 13,500 units are occupied, rendering it a virtual ghost town.The local authorities said this week they were putting out a tender in January to find a company with the capacity to shred the mountain of rubber, which poses a serious fire and environmental risk. Environmentalists say that should a fire break out it could not be extinguished with water and would have to be smothered with earth. In the event of a fire, Madrid\u2019s main airport would have to be shut down and an estimated 11,000 homes evacuated, it is claimed.The company originally tasked with managing the recycling had only four employees and was incapable of coping with work on this scale. The company was fined on various occasions for infringing environmental regulations and in 2009 the owner was jailed for three months for crimes against the environment. Dumping on the site ended in 2011.As the local authorities cannot agree on who should take responsibility for the work, once again they are tendering for a company that can shred the rubber. Shredded car tyres can be mixed with asphalt and used to pave roads. Noise levels on such roads are as much as 12 decibels lower than on conventional surfaces.The El Qui\u00f1on development was built without any provision for water or gas supplies, leaving the flats uninhabitable. Supplies have now been connected but the banks, desperate to offload the properties, have slashed the price of a two-bedroom flat from \u20ac200,000 to \u20ac57,000 (\u00a3147,000 to \u00a342,000). The local mayor was arrested on bribery charges relating to the project but was never tried. The developer has moved its headquarters to Equatorial Guinea.", "tags": ["Spain", "Environment", "Pollution", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Shredder sought for five million tyres dumped in Spain"}]