[{"date": "2008-02-25T16:44:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "In yesterday's Pendennis column in The Observer, I reported that Grant Bovey has given \u00a32500 to the Conservatives. Among the Monaco-dwelling billionaires and London socialites with famous (to Tatler readers if not far beyond) surnames, he stands out. Because Bovey is noneother than Mr Anthea Turner. Anthea's own political views are still a secret, but Grant's emergence as a political force provides a great opportunity to remember the events leading to his marriage.First, there was that complicated business when he kept leaving and getting back together with his wife Della. It would make a cynic wonder whether he was entirely sure that Anthea was right for him. Although, obviously, their happy marriage ever since shows that he finally made the right decision. It'll be a pity next time Dave Cameron decides to have a go at Gordon Brown for dithering if he doesn't consult his new expert on the subject first.But much better than that is that when they sold the pictures of the wedding to OK!, one of them looked oddly like an advertisement for a Cadbury's Flake. Anthea and Grant deny strongly that they had agreed to use their happy day to plug a confectionary product which legend has it (though not real life according to Cadbury's) is created by sweeping up and packing together in yellow paper all the little splinters that fall off the edges of other chocolate bars in the factory.All the same, the wedding cost around \u00a3150,000 which was paid for by the magazine. So when it comes to cashing in, it looks firmly like a question of degree rather than principle.And does it mean that in a sort of six degrees of separation way (or two degrees, or something), Richard Desmond, sometime porn baron, now Daily Express owner and prop. of OK!, has given that \u00a32500 to the Tories?", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Is Anthea Turner a Tory?"},{"date": "2008-02-25T16:44:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "In yesterday's Pendennis column in The Observer, I reported that Grant Bovey has given \u00a32500 to the Conservatives. Among the Monaco-dwelling billionaires and London socialites with famous (to Tatler readers if not far beyond) surnames, he stands out. Because Bovey is noneother than Mr Anthea Turner. Anthea's own political views are still a secret, but Grant's emergence as a political force provides a great opportunity to remember the events leading to his marriage.First, there was that complicated business when he kept leaving and getting back together with his wife Della. It would make a cynic wonder whether he was entirely sure that Anthea was right for him. Although, obviously, their happy marriage ever since shows that he finally made the right decision. It'll be a pity next time Dave Cameron decides to have a go at Gordon Brown for dithering if he doesn't consult his new expert on the subject first.But much better than that is that when they sold the pictures of the wedding to OK!, one of them looked oddly like an advertisement for a Cadbury's Flake. Anthea and Grant deny strongly that they had agreed to use their happy day to plug a confectionary product which legend has it (though not real life according to Cadbury's) is created by sweeping up and packing together in yellow paper all the little splinters that fall off the edges of other chocolate bars in the factory.All the same, the wedding cost around \u00a3150,000 which was paid for by the magazine. So when it comes to cashing in, it looks firmly like a question of degree rather than principle.And does it mean that in a sort of six degrees of separation way (or two degrees, or something), Richard Desmond, sometime porn baron, now Daily Express owner and prop. of OK!, has given that \u00a32500 to the Tories?", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Is Anthea Turner a Tory?"},{"date": "2008-03-12T09:06:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "For Britons living in Monaco and commuting to work in the City of London this week, the drab weather - more Cornish coast than C\u00f4te d'Azur - could be a sign of things to come. Today's budget is likely to make life harder for the 2,000 millionaires who call the handkerchief-sized tax haven home. Until now, tax rules that allow \"non-residents\" 90 days a year in Britain have contained a crucial loophole: the taxman has not counted \"travel days\" entering and leaving the country, allowing businesspeople to commute in on a Monday, leave on Wednesday, and claim to have spent just one day in the UK.It has in effect allowed Britons to spend most of the year - up to 270 days - working in Britain, while claiming to be residents of tax havens such as Monaco and to avoid paying tax. That will change under a stricter enforcement of the rules to be unveiled today which has unnerved tax lawyers serving Britons in several tax havens.The change - likely to count travel days or overnight stays in the residency total - will particularly affect the so-called \"Monaco mob\", millionaire City workers whose commute entails a seven-minute helicopter ride from Monaco to Nice for a connecting flight to London, often by private jet, before a swift return to the Riviera.But millionaires claiming residency in Monaco have told the Guardian they plan to circumvent the new rules by abandoning their weekly commute or transferring board meetings to offshore locations. Many said they would simply work in London several days at a time to cut down on travel days.At Monaco's harbour, a row of British Cayman Islands flags fluttering above the yachts behind him, Keith Luxon, a banker and seven-year Monaco resident, said the change was \"completely unjust. It will have a big impact. \"Whether it's here, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, the guys will have to change the way they work. The classic example is someone who flies in and out of London 90 days a year for work. Under the new rules he is suddenly a UK resident for tax purposes. Some people are talking about taking this to the European court of human rights.\"Rob Rutter, who works in finance and, as president of the British Association of Monaco, represents 600 expatriates, said the rule change could see more Britons abandoning the commute to the City to work from home in Monaco.Many already work by tele-conference from flats which overlook the Mediterranean. He added that while his members \"will have to be careful\", none were prepared to abandon their lives in the principality.\"It's not just tax - it's about lifestyle. The streets are immaculate, there's no crime. You can have breakfast on your terrace, go skiing in the morning, and be back to the beach for the afternoon. I don't know a single person going back. They'll change their lifestyles - it's a nuisance - but they'll get round it.\"Roger Munns, who runs two property businesses for Monaco multimillionaires - \"millionaires don't cut it in Monaco\" - pointed to another way round the rules. Those unwilling to change their commuting patterns, he said, were restructuring their companies to funnel money into their spouses' Monaco bank accounts. \"These people are quick thinkers,\" he said. \"They can move quicker than the government.\"The principality's two square kilometres of high-rise flats jostle together to use every inch of tax-free space. Property is in such high demand - \u00a33m will buy a small flat - that the authorities are reclaiming 25 acres from the sea.In one bar a group of City bankers, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed they would \"play the rules\" to find a way to continue spending time at their desks in London while maintaining non-residency status and paying zero income tax.In Monaco's decadent playground - a favourite for Britons since 19th-century industrialists first rolled dice in Monte Carlo's casino - it is easy to see how the state has proved popular for Europe's most moneyed expatriates.The night for many \"in-crowd\" expatriates begins at the Bar Am\u00e9ricain, with its Bentleys and Rolls Royces parked outside. The same faces dine in one of the two Michelin-starred restaurants in the H\u00f4tel de Paris, and end the night in Jimmy'z, a nightclub where two shots cost \u20ac40 (\u00a330) and the manager, Cyrille Regottaz, knows the \"west London set\" from his days running the Mayfair Club.Another feature of the local nightlife is the well-dressed prostitutes with forced smiles who, more than one British resident admitted, are what \"some of us spend our money on\". For the less extravagant, there is Sunday roast at the Columbus hotel, owned by David Coulthard, or trips to French streets across the border for normal priced lager and football.However they spend their money, there is a unease among Monaco's British residents at the Treasury's attack on their way of life. \"Most of these people running businesses [and living in Monaco] had got the whole system worked out - and it worked just fine,\" said Damian, a middle-aged \"retiring accountant\" and long-time Monaco resident. \"And now the Treasury has moved the goalposts. It's not on.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice Network, which campaigns against tax avoidance, said it was unsurprising Monaco's exiles had devised ways to circumvent the tightened 90-day rule. \"What a lot of normal people don't realise is that this is a massive game, almost pathological: 'We do not want to pay tax.'\"In Bar Am\u00e9ricain in the early hours of Sunday, that attitude was on full display. Men with British accents blew cigar smoke at the ceiling, while women speckled with pearls sat beside them and waved champagne into their glasses. In the corner, through thick smoke and spinning waiters, the band played on.The number of British residents in the tax haven of Monaco 2,054Monaco's total number of residents 32,020Square kilometres: the size of the principality. The authorities are also reclaiming 25 acres from the sea to satisfy the demand for residential development 2Cost of a small flat in Monaco \u00a32-3mThe price of a 30-minute executive tax ride from Monaco to Nice airport, to board a commuting flight to the City of London \u00a3878", "tags": ["Tax", "Income tax", "Money", "Business", "Politics", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Budget 2008", "Budget", "Budget 2008"], "title": "Monaco's millionaire commuters lay plans to beat Treasury clampdown"},{"date": "2008-02-25T16:44:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "In yesterday's Pendennis column in The Observer, I reported that Grant Bovey has given \u00a32500 to the Conservatives. Among the Monaco-dwelling billionaires and London socialites with famous (to Tatler readers if not far beyond) surnames, he stands out. Because Bovey is noneother than Mr Anthea Turner. Anthea's own political views are still a secret, but Grant's emergence as a political force provides a great opportunity to remember the events leading to his marriage.First, there was that complicated business when he kept leaving and getting back together with his wife Della. It would make a cynic wonder whether he was entirely sure that Anthea was right for him. Although, obviously, their happy marriage ever since shows that he finally made the right decision. It'll be a pity next time Dave Cameron decides to have a go at Gordon Brown for dithering if he doesn't consult his new expert on the subject first.But much better than that is that when they sold the pictures of the wedding to OK!, one of them looked oddly like an advertisement for a Cadbury's Flake. Anthea and Grant deny strongly that they had agreed to use their happy day to plug a confectionary product which legend has it (though not real life according to Cadbury's) is created by sweeping up and packing together in yellow paper all the little splinters that fall off the edges of other chocolate bars in the factory.All the same, the wedding cost around \u00a3150,000 which was paid for by the magazine. So when it comes to cashing in, it looks firmly like a question of degree rather than principle.And does it mean that in a sort of six degrees of separation way (or two degrees, or something), Richard Desmond, sometime porn baron, now Daily Express owner and prop. of OK!, has given that \u00a32500 to the Tories?", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Is Anthea Turner a Tory?"},{"date": "2008-03-12T09:06:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "For Britons living in Monaco and commuting to work in the City of London this week, the drab weather - more Cornish coast than C\u00f4te d'Azur - could be a sign of things to come. Today's budget is likely to make life harder for the 2,000 millionaires who call the handkerchief-sized tax haven home. Until now, tax rules that allow \"non-residents\" 90 days a year in Britain have contained a crucial loophole: the taxman has not counted \"travel days\" entering and leaving the country, allowing businesspeople to commute in on a Monday, leave on Wednesday, and claim to have spent just one day in the UK.It has in effect allowed Britons to spend most of the year - up to 270 days - working in Britain, while claiming to be residents of tax havens such as Monaco and to avoid paying tax. That will change under a stricter enforcement of the rules to be unveiled today which has unnerved tax lawyers serving Britons in several tax havens.The change - likely to count travel days or overnight stays in the residency total - will particularly affect the so-called \"Monaco mob\", millionaire City workers whose commute entails a seven-minute helicopter ride from Monaco to Nice for a connecting flight to London, often by private jet, before a swift return to the Riviera.But millionaires claiming residency in Monaco have told the Guardian they plan to circumvent the new rules by abandoning their weekly commute or transferring board meetings to offshore locations. Many said they would simply work in London several days at a time to cut down on travel days.At Monaco's harbour, a row of British Cayman Islands flags fluttering above the yachts behind him, Keith Luxon, a banker and seven-year Monaco resident, said the change was \"completely unjust. It will have a big impact. \"Whether it's here, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, the guys will have to change the way they work. The classic example is someone who flies in and out of London 90 days a year for work. Under the new rules he is suddenly a UK resident for tax purposes. Some people are talking about taking this to the European court of human rights.\"Rob Rutter, who works in finance and, as president of the British Association of Monaco, represents 600 expatriates, said the rule change could see more Britons abandoning the commute to the City to work from home in Monaco.Many already work by tele-conference from flats which overlook the Mediterranean. He added that while his members \"will have to be careful\", none were prepared to abandon their lives in the principality.\"It's not just tax - it's about lifestyle. The streets are immaculate, there's no crime. You can have breakfast on your terrace, go skiing in the morning, and be back to the beach for the afternoon. I don't know a single person going back. They'll change their lifestyles - it's a nuisance - but they'll get round it.\"Roger Munns, who runs two property businesses for Monaco multimillionaires - \"millionaires don't cut it in Monaco\" - pointed to another way round the rules. Those unwilling to change their commuting patterns, he said, were restructuring their companies to funnel money into their spouses' Monaco bank accounts. \"These people are quick thinkers,\" he said. \"They can move quicker than the government.\"The principality's two square kilometres of high-rise flats jostle together to use every inch of tax-free space. Property is in such high demand - \u00a33m will buy a small flat - that the authorities are reclaiming 25 acres from the sea.In one bar a group of City bankers, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed they would \"play the rules\" to find a way to continue spending time at their desks in London while maintaining non-residency status and paying zero income tax.In Monaco's decadent playground - a favourite for Britons since 19th-century industrialists first rolled dice in Monte Carlo's casino - it is easy to see how the state has proved popular for Europe's most moneyed expatriates.The night for many \"in-crowd\" expatriates begins at the Bar Am\u00e9ricain, with its Bentleys and Rolls Royces parked outside. The same faces dine in one of the two Michelin-starred restaurants in the H\u00f4tel de Paris, and end the night in Jimmy'z, a nightclub where two shots cost \u20ac40 (\u00a330) and the manager, Cyrille Regottaz, knows the \"west London set\" from his days running the Mayfair Club.Another feature of the local nightlife is the well-dressed prostitutes with forced smiles who, more than one British resident admitted, are what \"some of us spend our money on\". For the less extravagant, there is Sunday roast at the Columbus hotel, owned by David Coulthard, or trips to French streets across the border for normal priced lager and football.However they spend their money, there is a unease among Monaco's British residents at the Treasury's attack on their way of life. \"Most of these people running businesses [and living in Monaco] had got the whole system worked out - and it worked just fine,\" said Damian, a middle-aged \"retiring accountant\" and long-time Monaco resident. \"And now the Treasury has moved the goalposts. It's not on.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice Network, which campaigns against tax avoidance, said it was unsurprising Monaco's exiles had devised ways to circumvent the tightened 90-day rule. \"What a lot of normal people don't realise is that this is a massive game, almost pathological: 'We do not want to pay tax.'\"In Bar Am\u00e9ricain in the early hours of Sunday, that attitude was on full display. Men with British accents blew cigar smoke at the ceiling, while women speckled with pearls sat beside them and waved champagne into their glasses. In the corner, through thick smoke and spinning waiters, the band played on.The number of British residents in the tax haven of Monaco 2,054Monaco's total number of residents 32,020Square kilometres: the size of the principality. The authorities are also reclaiming 25 acres from the sea to satisfy the demand for residential development 2Cost of a small flat in Monaco \u00a32-3mThe price of a 30-minute executive tax ride from Monaco to Nice airport, to board a commuting flight to the City of London \u00a3878", "tags": ["Tax", "Income tax", "Money", "Business", "Politics", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Budget 2008", "Budget", "Budget 2008"], "title": "Monaco's millionaire commuters lay plans to beat Treasury clampdown"},{"date": "2008-01-06T23:33:08Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "United States 2,245,189China 1,565,771Russian Federation 889, 598Brazil 419,551India 332,112Thailand 161,844United Kingdom 80,229Saudi Arabia 28,612Israel 13,909Switzerland 5,888Jamaica 4,913Monaco 34Liechtenstein 10Tuvalu 5San Marino 1(International Centre for Prison Studies)", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Hugo Potter's minutiae: National prison populations"},{"date": "2008-02-25T16:44:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "In yesterday's Pendennis column in The Observer, I reported that Grant Bovey has given \u00a32500 to the Conservatives. Among the Monaco-dwelling billionaires and London socialites with famous (to Tatler readers if not far beyond) surnames, he stands out. Because Bovey is noneother than Mr Anthea Turner. Anthea's own political views are still a secret, but Grant's emergence as a political force provides a great opportunity to remember the events leading to his marriage.First, there was that complicated business when he kept leaving and getting back together with his wife Della. It would make a cynic wonder whether he was entirely sure that Anthea was right for him. Although, obviously, their happy marriage ever since shows that he finally made the right decision. It'll be a pity next time Dave Cameron decides to have a go at Gordon Brown for dithering if he doesn't consult his new expert on the subject first.But much better than that is that when they sold the pictures of the wedding to OK!, one of them looked oddly like an advertisement for a Cadbury's Flake. Anthea and Grant deny strongly that they had agreed to use their happy day to plug a confectionary product which legend has it (though not real life according to Cadbury's) is created by sweeping up and packing together in yellow paper all the little splinters that fall off the edges of other chocolate bars in the factory.All the same, the wedding cost around \u00a3150,000 which was paid for by the magazine. So when it comes to cashing in, it looks firmly like a question of degree rather than principle.And does it mean that in a sort of six degrees of separation way (or two degrees, or something), Richard Desmond, sometime porn baron, now Daily Express owner and prop. of OK!, has given that \u00a32500 to the Tories?", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Is Anthea Turner a Tory?"},{"date": "2008-03-12T09:06:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "For Britons living in Monaco and commuting to work in the City of London this week, the drab weather - more Cornish coast than C\u00f4te d'Azur - could be a sign of things to come. Today's budget is likely to make life harder for the 2,000 millionaires who call the handkerchief-sized tax haven home. Until now, tax rules that allow \"non-residents\" 90 days a year in Britain have contained a crucial loophole: the taxman has not counted \"travel days\" entering and leaving the country, allowing businesspeople to commute in on a Monday, leave on Wednesday, and claim to have spent just one day in the UK.It has in effect allowed Britons to spend most of the year - up to 270 days - working in Britain, while claiming to be residents of tax havens such as Monaco and to avoid paying tax. That will change under a stricter enforcement of the rules to be unveiled today which has unnerved tax lawyers serving Britons in several tax havens.The change - likely to count travel days or overnight stays in the residency total - will particularly affect the so-called \"Monaco mob\", millionaire City workers whose commute entails a seven-minute helicopter ride from Monaco to Nice for a connecting flight to London, often by private jet, before a swift return to the Riviera.But millionaires claiming residency in Monaco have told the Guardian they plan to circumvent the new rules by abandoning their weekly commute or transferring board meetings to offshore locations. Many said they would simply work in London several days at a time to cut down on travel days.At Monaco's harbour, a row of British Cayman Islands flags fluttering above the yachts behind him, Keith Luxon, a banker and seven-year Monaco resident, said the change was \"completely unjust. It will have a big impact. \"Whether it's here, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man, the guys will have to change the way they work. The classic example is someone who flies in and out of London 90 days a year for work. Under the new rules he is suddenly a UK resident for tax purposes. Some people are talking about taking this to the European court of human rights.\"Rob Rutter, who works in finance and, as president of the British Association of Monaco, represents 600 expatriates, said the rule change could see more Britons abandoning the commute to the City to work from home in Monaco.Many already work by tele-conference from flats which overlook the Mediterranean. He added that while his members \"will have to be careful\", none were prepared to abandon their lives in the principality.\"It's not just tax - it's about lifestyle. The streets are immaculate, there's no crime. You can have breakfast on your terrace, go skiing in the morning, and be back to the beach for the afternoon. I don't know a single person going back. They'll change their lifestyles - it's a nuisance - but they'll get round it.\"Roger Munns, who runs two property businesses for Monaco multimillionaires - \"millionaires don't cut it in Monaco\" - pointed to another way round the rules. Those unwilling to change their commuting patterns, he said, were restructuring their companies to funnel money into their spouses' Monaco bank accounts. \"These people are quick thinkers,\" he said. \"They can move quicker than the government.\"The principality's two square kilometres of high-rise flats jostle together to use every inch of tax-free space. Property is in such high demand - \u00a33m will buy a small flat - that the authorities are reclaiming 25 acres from the sea.In one bar a group of City bankers, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed they would \"play the rules\" to find a way to continue spending time at their desks in London while maintaining non-residency status and paying zero income tax.In Monaco's decadent playground - a favourite for Britons since 19th-century industrialists first rolled dice in Monte Carlo's casino - it is easy to see how the state has proved popular for Europe's most moneyed expatriates.The night for many \"in-crowd\" expatriates begins at the Bar Am\u00e9ricain, with its Bentleys and Rolls Royces parked outside. The same faces dine in one of the two Michelin-starred restaurants in the H\u00f4tel de Paris, and end the night in Jimmy'z, a nightclub where two shots cost \u20ac40 (\u00a330) and the manager, Cyrille Regottaz, knows the \"west London set\" from his days running the Mayfair Club.Another feature of the local nightlife is the well-dressed prostitutes with forced smiles who, more than one British resident admitted, are what \"some of us spend our money on\". For the less extravagant, there is Sunday roast at the Columbus hotel, owned by David Coulthard, or trips to French streets across the border for normal priced lager and football.However they spend their money, there is a unease among Monaco's British residents at the Treasury's attack on their way of life. \"Most of these people running businesses [and living in Monaco] had got the whole system worked out - and it worked just fine,\" said Damian, a middle-aged \"retiring accountant\" and long-time Monaco resident. \"And now the Treasury has moved the goalposts. It's not on.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice Network, which campaigns against tax avoidance, said it was unsurprising Monaco's exiles had devised ways to circumvent the tightened 90-day rule. \"What a lot of normal people don't realise is that this is a massive game, almost pathological: 'We do not want to pay tax.'\"In Bar Am\u00e9ricain in the early hours of Sunday, that attitude was on full display. Men with British accents blew cigar smoke at the ceiling, while women speckled with pearls sat beside them and waved champagne into their glasses. In the corner, through thick smoke and spinning waiters, the band played on.The number of British residents in the tax haven of Monaco 2,054Monaco's total number of residents 32,020Square kilometres: the size of the principality. The authorities are also reclaiming 25 acres from the sea to satisfy the demand for residential development 2Cost of a small flat in Monaco \u00a32-3mThe price of a 30-minute executive tax ride from Monaco to Nice airport, to board a commuting flight to the City of London \u00a3878", "tags": ["Tax", "Income tax", "Money", "Business", "Politics", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Budget 2008", "Budget", "Budget 2008"], "title": "Monaco's millionaire commuters lay plans to beat Treasury clampdown"},{"date": "2008-01-06T23:33:08Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "United States 2,245,189China 1,565,771Russian Federation 889, 598Brazil 419,551India 332,112Thailand 161,844United Kingdom 80,229Saudi Arabia 28,612Israel 13,909Switzerland 5,888Jamaica 4,913Monaco 34Liechtenstein 10Tuvalu 5San Marino 1(International Centre for Prison Studies)", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Hugo Potter's minutiae: National prison populations"},{"date": "2008-01-20T23:51:17Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Sultan of Brunei ($22bn) Haji Hassanal Bolkiah is also Brunei's prime minister and religious headSheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan ($21bn) Hereditary ruler of Abu DhabiKing Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz ($19bn) The Saudi king (right) is building a $26bn city in his own name Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum ($16bn) Ruler of DubaiKing Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand ($5bn) The world's longest-reigning monarchPrince Hans-Adam II von und zu Liechtenstein ($4.5bn) The family fortune goes back 900 yearsKing Mohammed IV of Morocco ($2bn)  Recognised for his efforts for human rightsPrince Albert II of Monaco ($1.2bn)  Property, art and casinos built a fortune for Albert (left)", "tags": ["Life and style"], "title": "Hugo Potter's minutiae"},{"date": "2008-05-21T11:46:37Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It's a playground for the rich, a Mediterranean tax haven crammed with luxury apartment blocks, where moneyed visitors will flock this week for the grand prix. But Monaco, the second smallest country in the world after the Vatican, has a problem: it has run out of space.Prince Albert II, who took over from his father in 2005, is staking his name on a daring project to expand Monaco's less than one square mile of territory by building a new district out to sea. Like Dubai's artificial islands, it will be a world landmark, designed to boost the economy by attracting new residents, business and luxury tourists. But rather than an island standing alone, it will jut out from the shore on stilts, inspired by the design of oil rigs, and could set a precedent for coastal expansion elsewhere.The project will take 10 years to build and will enable Monaco to boost its 33,000-strong population and perhaps also its 360,000 registered bank accounts. As well as apartments, shops and mooring for yachts, the development will have a showpiece of mega-architecture, likely to be a museum. The prince is studying five bids \"in top secrecy\" and architects including Norman Foster and IM Pei have been linked.For more than 100 years, the cramped principality has reclaimed all the land it could from the sea. But some environmentalists on the Cote d'Azur say the unprecedented move risks irreparably damaging marine flora and fauna. H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Granouillac of the Terre Bleue NGO based in Nice warned against disturbing the reserves of coral and the Mediterranean sea plant Posidonia oceanica along the limited Monaco coastline. \"If a new development is simply placed on top of the sea where these ecosystems are, they will be starved of the light that gives them life. That is very difficult to defend.\"Albert - a self-styled eco-champion - does not take this lightly. While international celebrity magazines still focus on the royal family descended from Grace Kelly, Albert has tried to put Monaco on the map with environmental measures. The prince introduced car-sharing schemes for workers, drives an electric car, and set up an eco-foundation, travelling to the north pole.Robert Calcagno, Monaco's councillor for the environment, and close to the prince, argued that the project was being developed so carefully that it would boost marine life.\"Not only will we protect the ecosystem but we will actually better the environment by putting in man-made reefs to allow species to thrive,\" he said.Calcagno added that the development would not be built over areas that were home to coral and sea-plants. Instead a zone had been chosen where \"nothing remarkable\" grows.The new neighbourhood would be a model of sustainable development using 10 times less energy than a normal area. \"This will be our showcase of the world's best eco-technology,\" Calcagno said.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Architecture", "World news", "Culture", "Art and design", "Europe"], "title": "Cramped Monaco plans new district - on stilts"},{"date": "2008-09-12T23:10:14Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Tim Vine: PunslingerQuays Theatre, The Lowry, Salford, Friday More puns than you can shake a stick at with the one-time world recordholder. If you like your laughs by the minute, fast and witty \u2014 Vine's your man.Elizabeth And Raleigh: Late But Live The Library Theatre, Manchester, Saturday Simon Munnery and Miles Jupp star in this Stewart Lee-penned play about Sir Walter Raleigh's attempts to bed our fair queen.Paddy McGuinness Plus You! LiveForum Theatre, Billingham, Saturday; Monaco Ballroom, Wigan, Sunday; Theatre Royal, St Helens, Wednesday; Winding Wheel, Chesterfield, Thursday; Buxton Opera House, FridayThe housewives' favourite and star of Phoenix Nights on tour.", "tags": ["North listings", "Comedy", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Picks of the Week: North: Comedy"},{"date": "2008-09-12T23:10:14Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Tim Vine: PunslingerQuays Theatre, The Lowry, Salford, Friday More puns than you can shake a stick at with the one-time world recordholder. If you like your laughs by the minute, fast and witty \u2014 Vine's your man.Elizabeth And Raleigh: Late But Live The Library Theatre, Manchester, Saturday Simon Munnery and Miles Jupp star in this Stewart Lee-penned play about Sir Walter Raleigh's attempts to bed our fair queen.Paddy McGuinness Plus You! LiveForum Theatre, Billingham, Saturday; Monaco Ballroom, Wigan, Sunday; Theatre Royal, St Helens, Wednesday; Winding Wheel, Chesterfield, Thursday; Buxton Opera House, FridayThe housewives' favourite and star of Phoenix Nights on tour.", "tags": ["North listings", "Comedy", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Picks of the Week: North: Comedy"},{"date": "2008-08-15T11:30:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While British property prices continue their dispiriting tumble, speculators who look slightly further afield might find that there is still money to be made on development. According to Major General Barney White-Spunner, just back in the UK from his post commanding British forces in southern Iraq, the market in Basra is hot.\"Property prices have more than doubled since March. One house is going for \u00a390,000, a threefold increase,\" White-Spunner said, citing the city's myriad attractions, such as newly-opened restaurants along the scenic corniche. With 30 civilian flights daily and a booming port, Basra is welcoming an influx of returning residents from the Iraqi diaspora, as well as foreigners \u2013 particularly Kuwaitis who come laden with oil money, driving prices up. Is Basra the new Monaco? And will you be moving there anytime soon?", "tags": ["Iraq", "Military", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "House prices"], "title": "Open thread: Fancy a Basra buy-to-let?"},{"date": "2008-11-27T12:42:27Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Wall Street Journal is preparing to defend a lawsuit from Monaco-based hedge fund SRM Global over the publication of allegedly confidential financial information.The case, which will be held in the high court in London, centres on two articles published on WSJ.com in August, according to a report in the Financial Times.The reports, which carried the headlines \"Woods Fund Takes a Beating\" and \"Hedge Fund Suffers Sharp Losses\", disclosed that the fund run by former UBS trader Jon Wood had allegedly lost about 85% of its value since it was founded in 2006.This information was allegedly circulated to investors then passed on to a London-based WSJ journalist without SRM Global's consent, according to the FT.SRM Global's lawsuit reportedly claims the data was confidential and published in \"flagrant disregard of its rights\".The WSJ is claiming the articles were \"responsible journalism on matters of legitimate public interest\".A victory for SRM Global would potentially make it harder for media organisations to publish information that has been circulated to investors.The hedge fund was the largest shareholder in Northern Rock before the bank was nationalised and held a large stake in US home loan provider Countrywide.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Wall Street Journal", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media law", "Media", "Law"], "title": "Monaco hedge fund suing Wall Street Journal over 'confidential' data"},{"date": "2008-11-27T12:42:27Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Wall Street Journal is preparing to defend a lawsuit from Monaco-based hedge fund SRM Global over the publication of allegedly confidential financial information.The case, which will be held in the high court in London, centres on two articles published on WSJ.com in August, according to a report in the Financial Times.The reports, which carried the headlines \"Woods Fund Takes a Beating\" and \"Hedge Fund Suffers Sharp Losses\", disclosed that the fund run by former UBS trader Jon Wood had allegedly lost about 85% of its value since it was founded in 2006.This information was allegedly circulated to investors then passed on to a London-based WSJ journalist without SRM Global's consent, according to the FT.SRM Global's lawsuit reportedly claims the data was confidential and published in \"flagrant disregard of its rights\".The WSJ is claiming the articles were \"responsible journalism on matters of legitimate public interest\".A victory for SRM Global would potentially make it harder for media organisations to publish information that has been circulated to investors.The hedge fund was the largest shareholder in Northern Rock before the bank was nationalised and held a large stake in US home loan provider Countrywide.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Wall Street Journal", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media law", "Media", "Law"], "title": "Monaco hedge fund suing Wall Street Journal over 'confidential' data"},{"date": "2008-11-14T08:03:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "James Murdoch thinks newspapers present one of the great opportunities for innovation and he does not share the growing gloom of other publishers. He also accused the industry - well, that bit of the industry not controlled by News Corporation, of course - of failing to attend to customers' changing wishes. Speaking at the Monaco Media Forum, he said: \"The newspaper industry has spent so much time wringing its hands about things that are exogenous and not enough time thinking about customers' daily lives.\"Titles such as the Sunday Times are promoting other, non-print businesses, he said, while The Sun has become the largest short-break holiday company in the UK and is making millions from online bingo. Sounds exogenous to me. (Source: Ft.com)", "tags": ["James Murdoch", "News Corporation", "Sunday Times", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: James Murdoch speaks up for newspapers"},{"date": "2008-11-27T12:42:27Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Wall Street Journal is preparing to defend a lawsuit from Monaco-based hedge fund SRM Global over the publication of allegedly confidential financial information.The case, which will be held in the high court in London, centres on two articles published on WSJ.com in August, according to a report in the Financial Times.The reports, which carried the headlines \"Woods Fund Takes a Beating\" and \"Hedge Fund Suffers Sharp Losses\", disclosed that the fund run by former UBS trader Jon Wood had allegedly lost about 85% of its value since it was founded in 2006.This information was allegedly circulated to investors then passed on to a London-based WSJ journalist without SRM Global's consent, according to the FT.SRM Global's lawsuit reportedly claims the data was confidential and published in \"flagrant disregard of its rights\".The WSJ is claiming the articles were \"responsible journalism on matters of legitimate public interest\".A victory for SRM Global would potentially make it harder for media organisations to publish information that has been circulated to investors.The hedge fund was the largest shareholder in Northern Rock before the bank was nationalised and held a large stake in US home loan provider Countrywide.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Wall Street Journal", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media law", "Media", "Law"], "title": "Monaco hedge fund suing Wall Street Journal over 'confidential' data"},{"date": "2008-11-14T08:03:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "James Murdoch thinks newspapers present one of the great opportunities for innovation and he does not share the growing gloom of other publishers. He also accused the industry - well, that bit of the industry not controlled by News Corporation, of course - of failing to attend to customers' changing wishes. Speaking at the Monaco Media Forum, he said: \"The newspaper industry has spent so much time wringing its hands about things that are exogenous and not enough time thinking about customers' daily lives.\"Titles such as the Sunday Times are promoting other, non-print businesses, he said, while The Sun has become the largest short-break holiday company in the UK and is making millions from online bingo. Sounds exogenous to me. (Source: Ft.com)", "tags": ["James Murdoch", "News Corporation", "Sunday Times", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: James Murdoch speaks up for newspapers"},{"date": "2008-11-17T00:01:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Conservatives yesterday blamed an administrative error after it emerged that the teenage daughter of a foreign arms dealer was recorded as giving \u00a347,000 to the party, even though she did not have the funds to make such a donation.The Tories said they would be reporting a clerical error after the party was forced to admit it had accepted donations in the name of Rasha Said, the daughter of Wafic Said, a multimillionaire businessman who, as a non-UK resident, is barred from making donations to political parties.Ms Said told the Sunday Times she had instructed her parents to make donations on her behalf but that some of the cash might have come from them.She is reported as making four donations in 2005, when she was 19, including \u00a335,000 in cash. She said she had asked her parents to donate on her behalf. Her mother, known as Rosemary, who is entitled to donate under British electoral law, gave \u00a3154,000 under the name Ann R Said. Wafic Said has homes in London and Oxfordshire, but resides in Monaco for tax purposes. He said his daughter had been mistaken in thinking she had given money to the Conservatives, as she only had \u00a3200. He said all her donations were in fact made by his wife, Rosemary. The donations had been wrongly accredited to Rasha by the party: \"The problem is, both of them have the same initial.\"A statement from the Conservative party yesterday said: \"In 2005, a number of donations from Rosemary were incorrectly registered with the Electoral Commission as coming from her daughter Rasha. This was an administrative error for which we take full responsibility. It occurred because of a misreading of the electoral roll during compliance checks.\"", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Party funding", "Politics"], "title": "Tories blame clerical error in proxy cash row"},{"date": "2009-02-09T00:01:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "If Monaco is, in Jack Nicholson's phrase, Alcatraz for the rich, what shall we make of Dubai? Dubai is a city built between the desert and the pale blue sea, that uses more water per capita than anywhere else in the world, and derives 97% of it from desalination, which means that it is the most expensive water in the world. Much of that water is being used to create a garden in the desert. All across the sprawling conurbation, labourers can be seen planting out millions, possibly billions, of bedding plants, into sand banks perpetually moistened by drip irrigation. Dubai has been built on the premise that nothing succeeds like excess.After years of popping in and out of Dubai airport on my way to and from Australia, this time I deliberately managed my travel itinerary so that I had a long layover, four hours of which I spent on the open top of a double-decker bus that wandered from Deira City Centre through the Wafi Mall, round the World Trade Centre, down to the Jumeira Beach Road and past The World, before doubling back past the Mall of the Emirates and downtown Dubai.Only 6% of Dubai's revenue comes from oil; the city makes most of its money out of inventing, creating, building and trading real estate. Hence Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum's hubristic notion of building an archipelago out of sand dredged from the Persian Gulf, 300 islets arranged in a resemblance of the world map, and calling it The World. Thousands of workers trucked in from poor countries constructed the patches of exposed sand, and the infrastructure that furnishes each with water and power. The islets have since sold for anything between US$15m and $250m apiece. It seems doubtful now that the countries and corporations that have bought into the scheme will have the resources to develop their patches of sand into themed resorts, which might be as well. We can only hope that the Irish company Larionovo, owners of the Ireland islet, never get to build their planned replica of the Giants' Causeway. What I particularly wanted to see was the tallest building in the world, Burj Dubai, which topped out at 2,684ft on 17 January. As the bus trundled past, I hung out from under the sun canopy, peering up at this needle stuck in the buttock of the Almighty, and I noticed with a thrill of something like terror that there were cranes still working on the top of it, half a mile up in the air, supposing there was any air up there. Burj Dubai was originally meant to be entirely residential; when I saw it, it was entirely empty. The Armani residences are apparently selling at US$3,500 per sq ft and office space for rather more, but I had an eerie feeling no one would ever live there. Soaring up from that tongue of sand, with the Empty Quarter stretching away to the south, Burj Dubai seemed outrageously megalomaniacal, and defiantly worldly, a new Tower of Babel. The developer, Emaar, has lost 75% of its value on the Dubai stock exchange.While Burj Dubai is a pretty conservative building, Burj al Arab, the huge sail-like luxury hotel built on the lines of an Arab dhow, is entirely innovative. The structure hangs from a steel exoskeleton. From the outside it is unbelievably elegant, light and clean (the interior is anything but). In afterthought, the reference to the tiny dhow seems somehow mocking. The only dhows on Dubai Creek these days take tourists on one-hour pleasure cruises. Though in Dubai you are surrounded by the poor, who labour on every building site, clean the streets and the houses, and wait on the children, they are as invisible as the plumbing. Here, there is no subsistence; here there is only shopping.Crassest of all the real estate initiatives are the three Palms, off-shore developments of 16 branches emerging from a central trunk, enclosed within a circular breakwater, each intended to house hotels, villas, apartments, marinas, theme parks, sports facilities, and malls. At Palm Jumeira, still largely undeveloped, the water between the branches is stagnating and algae is forming along the man-made beachfront. How this will affect the dolphins that are shipped from the South Pacific to amuse the guests at the Hotel Atlantis, who pay $75 to swim with them, is anybody's guess.In December, Nakheel, developer of the Palms, cut 15% of its workforce. Dubai's stock market has lost 70% of its value. Half of the 100 Dubai estate agents interviewed for the Christian Science Monitor in December said they had not sold a property in the previous month. Some of the unfinished buildings I saw will never be finished. Many should never have been started. For all its extravagant novelties and its masses of petunias, Dubai is a city with neither charm nor character.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 24 February 2009. In the article above we said that \"the only dhows on Dubai Creek these days take tourists on one-hour pleasure cruises\". In fact they are regularly used to transport cargo as well. We also said that the man-made group of islands arranged to resemble a world map was called Dubai World. Its actual name is The World and this has been corrected.", "tags": ["Architecture", "Art and design", "United Arab Emirates holidays", "Travel", "Culture"], "title": "Germaine Greer: From its artificial islands to its boring new skycraper, Dubai's architecture is beyond crass"},{"date": "2009-05-24T13:50:08Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Jenson Button has won the Monaco grand prix for his fifth race victory of the season, putting him 16 points clear of Brawn team-mate Rubens Barrichello in the world championship standings. Barrichello finished seconds in Monte Carlo with Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen in third.Button, who won from pole after leading throughout, said: \"This victory is massive for us. I got off the line clean, and it was all good from there other than the usual Monaco things such as traffic and the barriers getting nearer and nearer as the race dragged on.\"It's a strange feeling because you start backing off a little bit, and it started going through my mind that if I kept it together I'd win at Monaco. But that's dangerous, so I had to concentrate, keep a steady pace and end up enjoying a great day at Monaco.\"It's been an outstanding weekend. The team have been fabulous, and we're looking very strong over the next few races. Before the weekend I said winning here would not mean as much, but that was just to take the pressure off my shoulders. In fact, to win here is fantastic. It does mean so much.\"Button's only mistake of the day came after his victory when he parked his car back in the pits rather than in the top three parc ferme. That forced him into a run out of the pits, around La Rascasse and up the start/finish straight \u2013 around 600 metres in total \u2013 to take his place on the podium.Lewis Hamilton could only finish in 12th place after starting from the back of the grid.1 Jenson Button (Gbr) Brawn GP 1hr 40mins 44.282secs2 Rubens Barrichello (Bra) Brawn GP 1:40:51.9483 Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:40:57.7244 Felipe Massa (Bra) Ferrari 1:40:59.3925 Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull 1:41:00.0126 Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams 1:41:17.8687 Fernando Alonso (Spa) Renault 1:41:22.1218 Sebastien Bourdais (Fra) Scuderia Toro Rosso 1:41:47.4249 Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Force India 1:41:49.32210 Timo Glock (Ger) Toyota at 1 Lap11 Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber at 1 Lap12 Lewis Hamilton (Gbr) McLaren at 1 Lap13 Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota at 1 La14 Adrian Sutil (Ger) Force India at 1 Lap15 Kazuki Nakajima (Jpn) Williams at 2 LapsNot Classified: 16 Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) McLaren 51 Laps completed, 17 Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 28 Laps completed, 18 Sebastian Vettel (Ger) Red Bull 15 Laps completed, 19 Nelson Piquet Jr (Bra) Renault 10 Laps completed, 20 Sebastien Buemi (Swi) Scuderia Toro Rosso 10 Laps completed1 Jenson Button (Gbr) Brawn GP 51pts,2 Rubens Barrichello (Bra) Brawn GP 353 Sebastian Vettel (Ger) Red Bull 23,4 Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull 19.55 Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota 14.56 Timo Glock (Ger) Toyota 127 Fernando Alonso (Spa) Renault 118 Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 99 Lewis Hamilton (Gbr) McLaren 910 Felipe Massa (Bra) Ferrari 811 Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams 7.512 Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber 613 Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) McLaren 414 Sebastien Buemi (Swi) Scuderia Toro Rosso 315 Sebastien Bourdais (Fra) Scuderia Toro Rosso 216 Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Force India 017 Adrian Sutil (Ger) Force India 018 Nelson Piquet Jr (Bra) Renault 019 Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 020 Kazuki Nakajima (Jpn) Williams 0Manufacturers: 1 Brawn GP 86pts, 2 Red Bull 42.5, 3 Toyota 26.5, 4 Ferrari 17, 5 McLaren 13, 6 Renault 11, 7 Williams 7.5, 8 BMW Sauber 6, 9 Scuderia Toro Rosso 5, 10 Force India 0", "tags": ["Jenson Button", "Formula One", "Motor sport", "Formula One 2009"], "title": "Brawn's Jenson Button takes Monaco grand prix ahead of Rubens Barrichello"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-09-22T17:13:59Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The \"Club Med\" of southern European Union countries came under attack from environmentalists today for defying the campaign to ban trade in bluefin tuna, Japan's highly prized sushi fish, whose stocks are dwindling dangerously low.A fortnight ago the European commission agreed, after weeks of argument, to back a proposal from Monaco to ban trade in bluefin tuna. If the EU had voted for the ban at an international forum next March, fishing for bluefin tuna would have been effectively outlawed, at least temporarily.Despite optimism that the ban, supported by 21 EU governments, would go ahead, the move was blocked at a Brussels meeting late yesterday by Malta, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, France, and Greece.\"Deplorable,\" said Xavier Pastor, head of the Oceana fisheries conservation lobby group in Europe. \"They are pushing tuna to the point of no return.\"\"Enough is enough,\" said Aaron McLoughlin, head of the WWF European marine programme. \"It is once again large-scale Mediterranean fishing interests trying to gang up against the long-term survival of Atlantic bluefin tuna.\"French opposition was a particular surprise as President Nicolas Sarkozy made a speech in Brittany in July calling for the tuna ban, which is backed by Britain, Germany and most EU states who support Monaco, the first country to ban trading in bluefin tuna because it is endangered.Stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction level, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to be below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the European commission has said.\u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 23 September 2009. We mistakenly listed Portugal among the countries who opposed the ban on trade in bluefin tuna, and omitted Greece. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Conservation", "Oceans", "Endangered species", "European Union", "World news", "Environment", "Food"], "title": "Mediterranean EU countries block bluefin tuna ban"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-09-22T17:13:59Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The \"Club Med\" of southern European Union countries came under attack from environmentalists today for defying the campaign to ban trade in bluefin tuna, Japan's highly prized sushi fish, whose stocks are dwindling dangerously low.A fortnight ago the European commission agreed, after weeks of argument, to back a proposal from Monaco to ban trade in bluefin tuna. If the EU had voted for the ban at an international forum next March, fishing for bluefin tuna would have been effectively outlawed, at least temporarily.Despite optimism that the ban, supported by 21 EU governments, would go ahead, the move was blocked at a Brussels meeting late yesterday by Malta, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, France, and Greece.\"Deplorable,\" said Xavier Pastor, head of the Oceana fisheries conservation lobby group in Europe. \"They are pushing tuna to the point of no return.\"\"Enough is enough,\" said Aaron McLoughlin, head of the WWF European marine programme. \"It is once again large-scale Mediterranean fishing interests trying to gang up against the long-term survival of Atlantic bluefin tuna.\"French opposition was a particular surprise as President Nicolas Sarkozy made a speech in Brittany in July calling for the tuna ban, which is backed by Britain, Germany and most EU states who support Monaco, the first country to ban trading in bluefin tuna because it is endangered.Stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction level, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to be below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the European commission has said.\u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 23 September 2009. We mistakenly listed Portugal among the countries who opposed the ban on trade in bluefin tuna, and omitted Greece. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Conservation", "Oceans", "Endangered species", "European Union", "World news", "Environment", "Food"], "title": "Mediterranean EU countries block bluefin tuna ban"},{"date": "2009-09-09T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It's been a rocky year for the nascent American electric car maker Tesla, but the company - headed by Praetorian polymath Elon Musk - plans to extend its reach in Europe by opening a new sales and service centre in Munich later this week. Probably helps that Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes, holds a significant stake in Tesla - but the move also follows on from the firm's London store (it's in Knightsbridge, just a champagne cork's pop away from Harrod's) and the scheduled opening of another spot in Monaco. Two questions: has anyone been to the London location? And while these exclusive locations are perfect for Tesla's sporty Roadster models, will they help push the slightly-lower-down-the-scale Model S?", "tags": ["Motoring", "Automotive industry", "Electric", " hybrid and low-emission cars", "Technology", "Tesla"], "title": "Electric cars: Tesla ready to go Deutsch"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-09-22T17:13:59Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The \"Club Med\" of southern European Union countries came under attack from environmentalists today for defying the campaign to ban trade in bluefin tuna, Japan's highly prized sushi fish, whose stocks are dwindling dangerously low.A fortnight ago the European commission agreed, after weeks of argument, to back a proposal from Monaco to ban trade in bluefin tuna. If the EU had voted for the ban at an international forum next March, fishing for bluefin tuna would have been effectively outlawed, at least temporarily.Despite optimism that the ban, supported by 21 EU governments, would go ahead, the move was blocked at a Brussels meeting late yesterday by Malta, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, France, and Greece.\"Deplorable,\" said Xavier Pastor, head of the Oceana fisheries conservation lobby group in Europe. \"They are pushing tuna to the point of no return.\"\"Enough is enough,\" said Aaron McLoughlin, head of the WWF European marine programme. \"It is once again large-scale Mediterranean fishing interests trying to gang up against the long-term survival of Atlantic bluefin tuna.\"French opposition was a particular surprise as President Nicolas Sarkozy made a speech in Brittany in July calling for the tuna ban, which is backed by Britain, Germany and most EU states who support Monaco, the first country to ban trading in bluefin tuna because it is endangered.Stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction level, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to be below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the European commission has said.\u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 23 September 2009. We mistakenly listed Portugal among the countries who opposed the ban on trade in bluefin tuna, and omitted Greece. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Conservation", "Oceans", "Endangered species", "European Union", "World news", "Environment", "Food"], "title": "Mediterranean EU countries block bluefin tuna ban"},{"date": "2009-09-09T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It's been a rocky year for the nascent American electric car maker Tesla, but the company - headed by Praetorian polymath Elon Musk - plans to extend its reach in Europe by opening a new sales and service centre in Munich later this week. Probably helps that Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes, holds a significant stake in Tesla - but the move also follows on from the firm's London store (it's in Knightsbridge, just a champagne cork's pop away from Harrod's) and the scheduled opening of another spot in Monaco. Two questions: has anyone been to the London location? And while these exclusive locations are perfect for Tesla's sporty Roadster models, will they help push the slightly-lower-down-the-scale Model S?", "tags": ["Motoring", "Automotive industry", "Electric", " hybrid and low-emission cars", "Technology", "Tesla"], "title": "Electric cars: Tesla ready to go Deutsch"},{"date": "2009-07-22T15:47:56Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Avenue Princesse Grace in Monaco is the most expensive street in the world, with each square metre in an apartment setting you back \u00a373,000 \u2013 or about the same as a 70-square-metre apartment on the seafront in Hastings, according to Dow Jones' Wealth Bulletin.But the palm-lined street, named after the Hollywood star Grace Kelly and popular with Russian oligarchs, is suffering from \"la crise du credit\" like everywhere else. The bulletin shows top prices paid for apartments, are down by 37% from 2008's peak of \u00a3116,000 a square metre.Overall, prices paid for prime residential property in the world's fanciest locations have fallen by 12% over the past year, although Europe fell less sharply than the US and Russia.Via Suvretta in the Swiss ski resort of St Moritz was the only street on the list where prices for top properties have risen since 2008. Prices are up by 18% to around \u00a327,500 a square metre.The world's second priciest street, the Chemin de Saint-Hospice, is a 20-minute drive along the coast from Monaco, snaking through on Cap Ferrat. It numbers just 15 houses, commanding beautiful Mediterranean views.According to Wealth Bulletin, local estate agents say there is one property for sale on the street, but it is being sold privately and its price a closely guarded secret. It estimates that property on the street goes for an average of \u00a361,000 a square metre.New York's Fifth Avenue pips London's Kensington Palace Gardens to third place in the survey, with apartments selling for around \u00a344,000 a square metre. Although a 400 sq/m apartment overlooking Central Park on the Upper East Side of Fifth Avenue sold for $29m in June, local agents say the market has come off the boil, and remains affected by a lack of supplyFourth-placed Kensington Palace Gardens is Britain's most exclusive address, best-known as London's embassy row, including the Russian delegation. Prices in the street are estimated to have fallen by 15%-20% over the past year.1. Avenue Princesse Grace, Monaco, \u00a373,000 per sq/m2. Chemin de Saint-Hospice, Cap Ferrat, South of France, \u00a361,000 per sq/m3. Fifth Avenue, New York, \u00a344,000 per sq/m4. Kensington Palace Gardens, London, \u00a340,000 per sq/m5. Avenue Montaigne, Paris, \u00a333,000 per sq/m6. Via Suvretta, St Moritz, Switzerland, \u00a327,500 per sq/m7. Via Romazzino, Porto Cervo, Sardinia, \u00a326,000 per sq/m8. Severn Road, The Peak, Hong Kong, \u00a324,500 per sq/m9. Ostozhenka Street, Moscow, \u00a321,000 per sq/m10. Wolseley Road, Point Piper, Australia, \u00a317,000 per sq/m", "tags": ["House prices", "Property", "Buying property abroad", "Money", "Credit crunch", "Business"], "title": "Credit crunch reaches world's most expensive streets"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-09-22T17:13:59Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The \"Club Med\" of southern European Union countries came under attack from environmentalists today for defying the campaign to ban trade in bluefin tuna, Japan's highly prized sushi fish, whose stocks are dwindling dangerously low.A fortnight ago the European commission agreed, after weeks of argument, to back a proposal from Monaco to ban trade in bluefin tuna. If the EU had voted for the ban at an international forum next March, fishing for bluefin tuna would have been effectively outlawed, at least temporarily.Despite optimism that the ban, supported by 21 EU governments, would go ahead, the move was blocked at a Brussels meeting late yesterday by Malta, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, France, and Greece.\"Deplorable,\" said Xavier Pastor, head of the Oceana fisheries conservation lobby group in Europe. \"They are pushing tuna to the point of no return.\"\"Enough is enough,\" said Aaron McLoughlin, head of the WWF European marine programme. \"It is once again large-scale Mediterranean fishing interests trying to gang up against the long-term survival of Atlantic bluefin tuna.\"French opposition was a particular surprise as President Nicolas Sarkozy made a speech in Brittany in July calling for the tuna ban, which is backed by Britain, Germany and most EU states who support Monaco, the first country to ban trading in bluefin tuna because it is endangered.Stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction level, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to be below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the European commission has said.\u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 23 September 2009. We mistakenly listed Portugal among the countries who opposed the ban on trade in bluefin tuna, and omitted Greece. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Conservation", "Oceans", "Endangered species", "European Union", "World news", "Environment", "Food"], "title": "Mediterranean EU countries block bluefin tuna ban"},{"date": "2009-09-09T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It's been a rocky year for the nascent American electric car maker Tesla, but the company - headed by Praetorian polymath Elon Musk - plans to extend its reach in Europe by opening a new sales and service centre in Munich later this week. Probably helps that Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes, holds a significant stake in Tesla - but the move also follows on from the firm's London store (it's in Knightsbridge, just a champagne cork's pop away from Harrod's) and the scheduled opening of another spot in Monaco. Two questions: has anyone been to the London location? And while these exclusive locations are perfect for Tesla's sporty Roadster models, will they help push the slightly-lower-down-the-scale Model S?", "tags": ["Motoring", "Automotive industry", "Electric", " hybrid and low-emission cars", "Technology", "Tesla"], "title": "Electric cars: Tesla ready to go Deutsch"},{"date": "2009-07-22T15:47:56Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Avenue Princesse Grace in Monaco is the most expensive street in the world, with each square metre in an apartment setting you back \u00a373,000 \u2013 or about the same as a 70-square-metre apartment on the seafront in Hastings, according to Dow Jones' Wealth Bulletin.But the palm-lined street, named after the Hollywood star Grace Kelly and popular with Russian oligarchs, is suffering from \"la crise du credit\" like everywhere else. The bulletin shows top prices paid for apartments, are down by 37% from 2008's peak of \u00a3116,000 a square metre.Overall, prices paid for prime residential property in the world's fanciest locations have fallen by 12% over the past year, although Europe fell less sharply than the US and Russia.Via Suvretta in the Swiss ski resort of St Moritz was the only street on the list where prices for top properties have risen since 2008. Prices are up by 18% to around \u00a327,500 a square metre.The world's second priciest street, the Chemin de Saint-Hospice, is a 20-minute drive along the coast from Monaco, snaking through on Cap Ferrat. It numbers just 15 houses, commanding beautiful Mediterranean views.According to Wealth Bulletin, local estate agents say there is one property for sale on the street, but it is being sold privately and its price a closely guarded secret. It estimates that property on the street goes for an average of \u00a361,000 a square metre.New York's Fifth Avenue pips London's Kensington Palace Gardens to third place in the survey, with apartments selling for around \u00a344,000 a square metre. Although a 400 sq/m apartment overlooking Central Park on the Upper East Side of Fifth Avenue sold for $29m in June, local agents say the market has come off the boil, and remains affected by a lack of supplyFourth-placed Kensington Palace Gardens is Britain's most exclusive address, best-known as London's embassy row, including the Russian delegation. Prices in the street are estimated to have fallen by 15%-20% over the past year.1. Avenue Princesse Grace, Monaco, \u00a373,000 per sq/m2. Chemin de Saint-Hospice, Cap Ferrat, South of France, \u00a361,000 per sq/m3. Fifth Avenue, New York, \u00a344,000 per sq/m4. Kensington Palace Gardens, London, \u00a340,000 per sq/m5. Avenue Montaigne, Paris, \u00a333,000 per sq/m6. Via Suvretta, St Moritz, Switzerland, \u00a327,500 per sq/m7. Via Romazzino, Porto Cervo, Sardinia, \u00a326,000 per sq/m8. Severn Road, The Peak, Hong Kong, \u00a324,500 per sq/m9. Ostozhenka Street, Moscow, \u00a321,000 per sq/m10. Wolseley Road, Point Piper, Australia, \u00a317,000 per sq/m", "tags": ["House prices", "Property", "Buying property abroad", "Money", "Credit crunch", "Business"], "title": "Credit crunch reaches world's most expensive streets"},{"date": "2009-08-10T17:32:29Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Italy's bronzed and muscular life guards are under threat this summer as a new breed of lifesaver grows in popularity, despite being shorter and a lot hairier.Three hundred dogs are now licensed to save drowning bathers at Italy's beaches and lakes, and have already helped save seven lives.Accompanied by instructors, the labradors, newfoundlands and golden retrievers plunge through waves or even leap out of boats and helicopters to help pull bathers to safety.\"The dogs are notching up more rescues and becoming increasingly popular,\" said Donatella Pasquale, vice-president of the school run by Italy's civil protection agency where dogs have trained since the 1980s.Pasquale said dogs learned to tow their instructors out to sea, leaving them the strength to give medical attention to drowning swimmers. \"The dogs are incredibly strong,\" she said. \"Our record is one dog towing 40 people at the same time.\" They were rarely sent into the water on their own, she added. \"If you're drowning you might get a shock if a wet dog, rather than a Baywatch character, appears to save you.\"Five of the school's graduates have debuted this year near Venice, where Marcello Monaco, a coastguard official, said they were a hit. \"They are constantly listening for yells from the water and scanning for waving arms,\" he said.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Canine heroes saving Italy's swimmers"},{"date": "2009-07-12T21:25:54Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "While house prices across Europe have plunged in recent months, a stream of wealthy tax exiles is continuing to push up property prices in offshore tax enclaves across the continent.According to a new survey, tax havens from Gibraltar to the Isle of Man are bucking the slump, with many wealthy Britons helping to drive up prices.The survey, by the Sovereign Group, an international offshore tax specialist, points to Monaco \u2013 home to businessmen including the Topshop boss Sir Philip Green \u2013 where prices have risen by up to 30%, while in neighbouring Provence they have fallen back rapidly. In Gibraltar a local estate agent reported \"a marked increase in interest for properties\", in contrast to the nearby Costa del Sol, where home values have been in near-freefall.Nearer home, Jersey's chief government statistician said prices were up 7%. In neighbouring Guernsey, however, apartment prices are down, although house prices are stable. The Terra Firma private equity boss Guy Hands has recently relocated to Guernsey for tax reasons.On the Isle of Man, prices this year are up 4% and one local agent said: \"Enquiries from UK applicants have risen strongly.\"\"The facts speak for themselves here,\" said Howard Bilton, chairman of the Sovereign Group. \"Property prices in the south of France and southern Spain are languishing in the worst slump they've seen in many years but on their outskirts are two little areas \u2013 Monaco and Gibraltar \u2013 where the market is extraordinarily resilient. We believe, and all our local sources are telling us, that much of this disparity is because of interest from a new breed of British tax refugee.\"Bilton said 20% of new business in his London office was coming from people looking to move offshore. Many are planning to take their businesses with them. \"This is not the 1960s, when currency controls and limited communications made it difficult to relocate yourself and your business,\" he said. \"This is the broadband age, when voting with your feet is a very viable option for many.\"", "tags": ["Buying property abroad", "Business", "Property", "Tax", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Rich Britons help to drive up house prices in tax havens"},{"date": "2009-09-09T15:32:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The European commission today threw its support behind a campaign to outlaw trade in endangered bluefin tuna, meaning that efforts to rebuild stocks of the species could begin next year.At a meeting in Brussels, the commission agreed to support Monaco, the first country to ban bluefin tuna trading, in its attempt to have the fish listed internationally as an endangered species.The commission said, however, that it would take further scientific advice on the matter, before a final decision next March and would also put the issue before EU members states in a fortnight.Although a complete ban on trade in bluefin tuna is supported by EU member states such as Germany, France, Britain and several others, the move could yet be opposed by the big players in Mediterranean fishing: Spain, Italy, and Malta, the centre of the European bluefin industry.\"It is great news that the commission is showing its support for the proposal to give bluefin tuna the highest form of protection, which the UK is backing strongly,\" said Hilary Benn, the environment secretary. \"We'll be speaking to other member states to get their agreement to back Monaco's proposal, too.\"Joe Borg, the fisheries commissioner who is Maltese and had resisted the move as recently as last week, said: \"Our recommendations reflect the grave concern that the commission shares on the state of bluefin tuna.\"In July, Monaco called for bluefin tuna to be listed internationally as an endangered species and was supported by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.\"This decision marks an important step in the protection of Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said Stavros Dimas, the environment commissioner.If the 27 countries in the EU vote as a bloc next March at a session of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), there should be a majority for a global ban on bluefin tuna trading.\"If agreed, the Cites' vote in March 2010 would result in a ban on international trade in Atlantic bluefin tuna,\" said the commission.The depleted stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction levels, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the commission said.Stocks of the fish were decimated throughout the 1990s. Around 80% of the bluefin tuna caught in the Mediterranean is exported to Japan for conversion into sushi after the fish have been fattened for several months in European fish farms.\"Bluefin tuna has become endangered because of disgraceful fisheries management in the EU. The suspension of trade is a last resort and it merely buys the EU time to put its fisheries management in order,\" said Saskia Richartz of Greenpeace.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Food", "Conservation", "Ethical and green living", "European Union", "Environment", "World news", "Oceans"], "title": "Europe moves closer to ban on bluefin tuna fishing"},{"date": "2009-09-22T17:13:59Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The \"Club Med\" of southern European Union countries came under attack from environmentalists today for defying the campaign to ban trade in bluefin tuna, Japan's highly prized sushi fish, whose stocks are dwindling dangerously low.A fortnight ago the European commission agreed, after weeks of argument, to back a proposal from Monaco to ban trade in bluefin tuna. If the EU had voted for the ban at an international forum next March, fishing for bluefin tuna would have been effectively outlawed, at least temporarily.Despite optimism that the ban, supported by 21 EU governments, would go ahead, the move was blocked at a Brussels meeting late yesterday by Malta, Cyprus, Spain, Italy, France, and Greece.\"Deplorable,\" said Xavier Pastor, head of the Oceana fisheries conservation lobby group in Europe. \"They are pushing tuna to the point of no return.\"\"Enough is enough,\" said Aaron McLoughlin, head of the WWF European marine programme. \"It is once again large-scale Mediterranean fishing interests trying to gang up against the long-term survival of Atlantic bluefin tuna.\"French opposition was a particular surprise as President Nicolas Sarkozy made a speech in Brittany in July calling for the tuna ban, which is backed by Britain, Germany and most EU states who support Monaco, the first country to ban trading in bluefin tuna because it is endangered.Stocks of the fish in the Mediterranean have hit almost extinction level, according to experts, with bluefin tuna thought to be below 18% of the total in 1970.\"As a result of both legal and illegal catches, over the past decades the species has experienced a sharp decline and its conservation status is now very poor,\" the European commission has said.\u2022 This article was amended on Wednesday 23 September 2009. We mistakenly listed Portugal among the countries who opposed the ban on trade in bluefin tuna, and omitted Greece. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Marine life", "Conservation", "Oceans", "Endangered species", "European Union", "World news", "Environment", "Food"], "title": "Mediterranean EU countries block bluefin tuna ban"},{"date": "2009-09-09T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It's been a rocky year for the nascent American electric car maker Tesla, but the company - headed by Praetorian polymath Elon Musk - plans to extend its reach in Europe by opening a new sales and service centre in Munich later this week. Probably helps that Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes, holds a significant stake in Tesla - but the move also follows on from the firm's London store (it's in Knightsbridge, just a champagne cork's pop away from Harrod's) and the scheduled opening of another spot in Monaco. Two questions: has anyone been to the London location? And while these exclusive locations are perfect for Tesla's sporty Roadster models, will they help push the slightly-lower-down-the-scale Model S?", "tags": ["Motoring", "Automotive industry", "Electric", " hybrid and low-emission cars", "Technology", "Tesla"], "title": "Electric cars: Tesla ready to go Deutsch"},{"date": "2009-07-22T15:47:56Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Avenue Princesse Grace in Monaco is the most expensive street in the world, with each square metre in an apartment setting you back \u00a373,000 \u2013 or about the same as a 70-square-metre apartment on the seafront in Hastings, according to Dow Jones' Wealth Bulletin.But the palm-lined street, named after the Hollywood star Grace Kelly and popular with Russian oligarchs, is suffering from \"la crise du credit\" like everywhere else. The bulletin shows top prices paid for apartments, are down by 37% from 2008's peak of \u00a3116,000 a square metre.Overall, prices paid for prime residential property in the world's fanciest locations have fallen by 12% over the past year, although Europe fell less sharply than the US and Russia.Via Suvretta in the Swiss ski resort of St Moritz was the only street on the list where prices for top properties have risen since 2008. Prices are up by 18% to around \u00a327,500 a square metre.The world's second priciest street, the Chemin de Saint-Hospice, is a 20-minute drive along the coast from Monaco, snaking through on Cap Ferrat. It numbers just 15 houses, commanding beautiful Mediterranean views.According to Wealth Bulletin, local estate agents say there is one property for sale on the street, but it is being sold privately and its price a closely guarded secret. It estimates that property on the street goes for an average of \u00a361,000 a square metre.New York's Fifth Avenue pips London's Kensington Palace Gardens to third place in the survey, with apartments selling for around \u00a344,000 a square metre. Although a 400 sq/m apartment overlooking Central Park on the Upper East Side of Fifth Avenue sold for $29m in June, local agents say the market has come off the boil, and remains affected by a lack of supplyFourth-placed Kensington Palace Gardens is Britain's most exclusive address, best-known as London's embassy row, including the Russian delegation. Prices in the street are estimated to have fallen by 15%-20% over the past year.1. Avenue Princesse Grace, Monaco, \u00a373,000 per sq/m2. Chemin de Saint-Hospice, Cap Ferrat, South of France, \u00a361,000 per sq/m3. Fifth Avenue, New York, \u00a344,000 per sq/m4. Kensington Palace Gardens, London, \u00a340,000 per sq/m5. Avenue Montaigne, Paris, \u00a333,000 per sq/m6. Via Suvretta, St Moritz, Switzerland, \u00a327,500 per sq/m7. Via Romazzino, Porto Cervo, Sardinia, \u00a326,000 per sq/m8. Severn Road, The Peak, Hong Kong, \u00a324,500 per sq/m9. Ostozhenka Street, Moscow, \u00a321,000 per sq/m10. Wolseley Road, Point Piper, Australia, \u00a317,000 per sq/m", "tags": ["House prices", "Property", "Buying property abroad", "Money", "Credit crunch", "Business"], "title": "Credit crunch reaches world's most expensive streets"},{"date": "2009-08-10T17:32:29Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Italy's bronzed and muscular life guards are under threat this summer as a new breed of lifesaver grows in popularity, despite being shorter and a lot hairier.Three hundred dogs are now licensed to save drowning bathers at Italy's beaches and lakes, and have already helped save seven lives.Accompanied by instructors, the labradors, newfoundlands and golden retrievers plunge through waves or even leap out of boats and helicopters to help pull bathers to safety.\"The dogs are notching up more rescues and becoming increasingly popular,\" said Donatella Pasquale, vice-president of the school run by Italy's civil protection agency where dogs have trained since the 1980s.Pasquale said dogs learned to tow their instructors out to sea, leaving them the strength to give medical attention to drowning swimmers. \"The dogs are incredibly strong,\" she said. \"Our record is one dog towing 40 people at the same time.\" They were rarely sent into the water on their own, she added. \"If you're drowning you might get a shock if a wet dog, rather than a Baywatch character, appears to save you.\"Five of the school's graduates have debuted this year near Venice, where Marcello Monaco, a coastguard official, said they were a hit. \"They are constantly listening for yells from the water and scanning for waving arms,\" he said.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Canine heroes saving Italy's swimmers"},{"date": "2009-09-17T23:05:21Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must pass over in silence. Wittgenstein's famous one-liner is acquiring an eerie new resonance in a most unlikely place \u2013 the courtroom. The ideal of the whole truth being placed on record is increasingly strained by strict injunctions which preclude not only knowledge of what has been said, but of the fact that a hearing ever took place. In recent days a corporation, which shall of course remain nameless, served the Guardian with an order. This not only barred us from publishing details of a document raising the possibility of serious wrongdoing on its part, but also prevented us from letting slip that any such injunction had been made.There is a powerful sense that this is part of a pattern, although obtaining watertight proof is impossible, since in many such cases there is also an order to seal the court files, which is where one would ordinarily look in order to undertake a tally of injunctions. One is left in the Carollesque absurdity of being unable to count the number of secret sessions because such sessions are not officially held to count. Occasional cases where injunctions have been revoked on appeal \u2013 such as that imposed on Private Eye by senior lawyer Michael Napier to conceal murky handling of a complaint against him \u2013 have shown how the public interest is ill-served by public ignorance.The underlying problem is the half-evolved state of the privacy law, which the courts are developing under Article 8 of the European convention on human rights. This covers the \"right to respect for [one's] private and family life\", and was originally intended to preclude Stasi-style policing more than anything else, although in 2004 Strasbourg ruled that it also afforded protection to Princess Caroline of Monaco to enjoy a private life without endless hounding by the paparazzi. Her plight deserved sympathy, but that is not true of those corporations (dubious candidates for \"human\" rights in any circumstances) who exploit the principle that she supposedly established in order to divert the harsh light of day away from any dealings they would prefer to keep under wraps.The growing band of Strasbourg judges who come from countries that lack strong free speech traditions is a concern, but it must be hoped that the court there will nonetheless soon use another case to clarify the many circumstances in which the public interest requires that the right to privacy be tempered by the right to free expression. But even before that happens, British judges should find the courage to make a stand. At the very moment when the government's control order regime for terror suspects is unravelling because of its reliance on secret evidence, they should surely be more mindful than ever that justice in the dark is rarely justice at all.", "tags": ["Privacy & the media", "Law", "Human rights", "World news", "Media", "Privacy"], "title": "Privacy law: Silence in court | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "On one balmy night this August, when the audience packed into the 522-seat belle epoque Monte Carlo Garnier Opera House, it felt like history was in the making. Even for Monaco, it was an unprecedented royal flush: two Princes in the same room, one singing, the other dancing.Surrounded by two glittery giant jellyfish dangling from the ceiling, Prince (the rock star) launched into a mega-decibel guitar riff. Meanwhile, His Serene Highness, Prince Albert II, hidden away in his plush red velvet royal box, was on his feet, barely able to keep still, just like the rest of the fans. The magnificent five-tonne chandelier of Bohemian crystal had been upstaged by psychedelic strobes. The gilded walls, nymphs and mythological gods were bathed in a purple glow.Call it the New Era. When Prince Rainier died in 2005 he was deeply mourned, but a page had been turned. Once considered a quieter-than-the-grave tax haven for ostentatiously wealthy expatriates, there's a flipside to Monaco. These days, the principality's stuffy image is slowly morphing into a hip, and even affordable destination, attractive to a younger crowd.This is, in part, thanks to Prince Albert, who actively supports the thriving arts scene, from the Monte Carlo Jazz Festival, which celebrates its fourth anniversary in November, to major art exhibitions at the Grimaldi Forum and the principality's latest museum, NMNM (New National Monaco Museum). There's also a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants and bars with lunchtime specials and happy hours. Or you can go native, stopping off at the bakeries to pick up freshly-baked regional specialities to feast on down at the beach.The best time to visit is September and October, when the sea is still warm and silky, and the hot silver haze of summer evaporates into the pure dazzling light of a mild autumn. No need to hire a car when the 45-minute bus ride from Nice airport is \u20ac28.50 return, or only \u20ac2.60 round trip from the centre of Nice. Since the sovereign state of Monaco is only around two kilometres square, everything is within walking distance or easily reachable by bus. (Check out the lifts built into the rock that take you from sea level to the heights of Monte Carlo).The perks continue: spend three nights in a two or three-star hotel in Monaco, and you get a voucher giving you free entry to the museums. At the top of the kid-friendly list are the guided tours of the throne room and state apartments in the dusty-pink Prince's Palace and the Oceanography Museum, with its impressive collection of bizarre coral reef marine creatures and a shark lagoon.The latest buzz is down by the port, in the Condamine neighbourhood, where the native Mon\u00e9gasques (approximately 8,000 of them, or 19% of the population) hang out. If you want to splash out, stay at the cool, new, three-star Ni Hotel, a 17-room design haven with a flashy, pop art-inspired bar, rooftop lounge, gym and stylish, hi-tech rooms.On rue Grimaldi, the same lively street as the Ni Hotel, browse the boutiques and pop into Le Dressing, a treasure trove for secondhand designer finery, from Chanel jackets to YSL silk gowns (from \u20ac300). Don't miss a morning trip to the Condamine open-air market on the Place d'Armes for a rainbow of fresh produce, from vine peaches to courgettes with yellow blossoms (used for delicately-fried flower fritters). Most of the neighbourhood bakeries here carry the inexpensive local finger food, Barbagiuan (which means Uncle John) \u2013 a fried dumpling stuffed with Swiss chard and Parmesan cheese, tian, mixed vegetables and rice, or pissaladi\u00e8re, a flat onion tart. Try Maison Mullot (first stand on the right inside the covered market), for savoury and sweet goodies, including the traditional sweet pastry, fougasse Mon\u00e9gasque.Down at the harbour, where the tiny blue-painted wooden fishing boats still unload their catch of the day, there are art galleries and rows of new cafes. Diehard lap swimmers should take advantage of the inviting outdoor, Olympic-sized, saltwater pool. For a handful of euros you can spend the afternoon basking and dunking.Come sunset, the latest after-work hotspot at the port is La Brasserie de Monaco, a friendly bar with an outdoor terrace, which serves four blends of its own organic beer. Check out the tasty cheap snacks, such as petits farcis (Provencal stuffed vegetables) and socca (a paper-thin savoury pancake made of chickpea flour and olive oil). A few doors down is Le Black Legend, a disco-style lounge that will feature Motown hits and live funk groups when it opens on Halloween.Even up on the hill the atmosphere is changing. Opened in 2008, Moods, built right under the Caf\u00e9 de Paris, is a popular music bar lounge. The drinks are very expensive \u2013 a beer starts at \u20ac8 \u2013 but the live rock, jazz or blues is free.It's a far cry from Vegas, but Monaco's casinos are all part of the fun. Though the formal dress code is still upheld at the legendary belle epoque-style gaming landmark (bring your passport and \u20ac10 for the entrance fee), there are three other casinos \u2013 the Cafe de Paris, the Sun Casino inside the Fairmont Hotel, and the Monte-Carlo Bay \u2013 where casual attire rules and no fee is required. Expect cutting-edge models of slot machines (there are no sirens or jangling coins here \u2013 the machine discreetly prints up a voucher of your winnings). One evening this August, a tourist wandered over to a hi-tech Star Wars slot machine at the Sun Casino and began to play, at 5 cents per hit. Fifteen euros later, the jackpot fell into his lap, more than \u20ac700,000.No visit is complete without a wander through the heights of Monaco-Ville, west of the harbour. The setting for the Prince's Palace and Saint Nicholas Cathedral, this area, known as Le Rocher, or the Rock, is covered with a medieval mini-maze of cobblestone streets. It's deliciously peaceful up there in the suspended exotic gardens of Saint-Martin, filled with rare succulents and towering yuccas; and the stunning panoramic view won't cost you a cent.Where to StayHotel de France (00 377 9330 2464; monte-carlo.mc/france) in the heart of the Condamine district has small but cheery doubles from \u20ac85 including breakfast. The Ni Hotel on rue Grimaldi (00 377 9797 5151; nihotel.com) has doubles from \u20ac150. A far better-value option is to stay just east of Monaco in Roquebrune Cap-Martin. The Hotel Victoria (00 33 4 9335 6590; hotel-victoria.fr) has lovely sea-facing rooms inspired by Jean Cocteau from \u20ac89. The Monaco bus stops in front of the hotel, or the principality is a nine-minute train ride away. Le Roquebrune (00 33 4 9335 0016; le-roquebrune.com) is a charming five-room B&B with private seaview terraces. Double rooms costs from \u20ac110.Where to Eat There are some stunning bakeries in Monte Carlo. Try Maison Mullot or La Roca in March\u00e9 de la Condamine for onion tarts, quiches and barbagiuans from \u20ac2.50. Tartine Monaco on route de la Piscine (00 377 9798 7070; tartinemonaco.com) is an attractive new bistro featuring fresh fish and organic salads; two-course weekday lunch \u20ac15.80. In Roquebrune, La Diff\u00e9rance on Sentier des Douaniers is a cafe with a dreamy sea view offering a plat du jour with coffee for around \u20ac12. The best pizza is at Il Triangolo on avenue de la Madone, a few steps from Casino Square in Monaco.Where to drinkLa Brasserie de Monaco, on route de la Piscine, serves organic beer brewed on the premises. It's \u20ac2 a glass at happy hour (5pm-8pm). Wine O'Clock, on avenue Saint-Laurent, has a terrace and an impressive choice of top vintages from \u20ac4 a glass.For more information see visitmonaco.com", "tags": ["Monaco holidays", "Budget travel", "City breaks", "France holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Family holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Monte Carlo on the cheap"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "On one balmy night this August, when the audience packed into the 522-seat belle epoque Monte Carlo Garnier Opera House, it felt like history was in the making. Even for Monaco, it was an unprecedented royal flush: two Princes in the same room, one singing, the other dancing.Surrounded by two glittery giant jellyfish dangling from the ceiling, Prince (the rock star) launched into a mega-decibel guitar riff. Meanwhile, His Serene Highness, Prince Albert II, hidden away in his plush red velvet royal box, was on his feet, barely able to keep still, just like the rest of the fans. The magnificent five-tonne chandelier of Bohemian crystal had been upstaged by psychedelic strobes. The gilded walls, nymphs and mythological gods were bathed in a purple glow.Call it the New Era. When Prince Rainier died in 2005 he was deeply mourned, but a page had been turned. Once considered a quieter-than-the-grave tax haven for ostentatiously wealthy expatriates, there's a flipside to Monaco. These days, the principality's stuffy image is slowly morphing into a hip, and even affordable destination, attractive to a younger crowd.This is, in part, thanks to Prince Albert, who actively supports the thriving arts scene, from the Monte Carlo Jazz Festival, which celebrates its fourth anniversary in November, to major art exhibitions at the Grimaldi Forum and the principality's latest museum, NMNM (New National Monaco Museum). There's also a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants and bars with lunchtime specials and happy hours. Or you can go native, stopping off at the bakeries to pick up freshly-baked regional specialities to feast on down at the beach.The best time to visit is September and October, when the sea is still warm and silky, and the hot silver haze of summer evaporates into the pure dazzling light of a mild autumn. No need to hire a car when the 45-minute bus ride from Nice airport is \u20ac28.50 return, or only \u20ac2.60 round trip from the centre of Nice. Since the sovereign state of Monaco is only around two kilometres square, everything is within walking distance or easily reachable by bus. (Check out the lifts built into the rock that take you from sea level to the heights of Monte Carlo).The perks continue: spend three nights in a two or three-star hotel in Monaco, and you get a voucher giving you free entry to the museums. At the top of the kid-friendly list are the guided tours of the throne room and state apartments in the dusty-pink Prince's Palace and the Oceanography Museum, with its impressive collection of bizarre coral reef marine creatures and a shark lagoon.The latest buzz is down by the port, in the Condamine neighbourhood, where the native Mon\u00e9gasques (approximately 8,000 of them, or 19% of the population) hang out. If you want to splash out, stay at the cool, new, three-star Ni Hotel, a 17-room design haven with a flashy, pop art-inspired bar, rooftop lounge, gym and stylish, hi-tech rooms.On rue Grimaldi, the same lively street as the Ni Hotel, browse the boutiques and pop into Le Dressing, a treasure trove for secondhand designer finery, from Chanel jackets to YSL silk gowns (from \u20ac300). Don't miss a morning trip to the Condamine open-air market on the Place d'Armes for a rainbow of fresh produce, from vine peaches to courgettes with yellow blossoms (used for delicately-fried flower fritters). Most of the neighbourhood bakeries here carry the inexpensive local finger food, Barbagiuan (which means Uncle John) \u2013 a fried dumpling stuffed with Swiss chard and Parmesan cheese, tian, mixed vegetables and rice, or pissaladi\u00e8re, a flat onion tart. Try Maison Mullot (first stand on the right inside the covered market), for savoury and sweet goodies, including the traditional sweet pastry, fougasse Mon\u00e9gasque.Down at the harbour, where the tiny blue-painted wooden fishing boats still unload their catch of the day, there are art galleries and rows of new cafes. Diehard lap swimmers should take advantage of the inviting outdoor, Olympic-sized, saltwater pool. For a handful of euros you can spend the afternoon basking and dunking.Come sunset, the latest after-work hotspot at the port is La Brasserie de Monaco, a friendly bar with an outdoor terrace, which serves four blends of its own organic beer. Check out the tasty cheap snacks, such as petits farcis (Provencal stuffed vegetables) and socca (a paper-thin savoury pancake made of chickpea flour and olive oil). A few doors down is Le Black Legend, a disco-style lounge that will feature Motown hits and live funk groups when it opens on Halloween.Even up on the hill the atmosphere is changing. Opened in 2008, Moods, built right under the Caf\u00e9 de Paris, is a popular music bar lounge. The drinks are very expensive \u2013 a beer starts at \u20ac8 \u2013 but the live rock, jazz or blues is free.It's a far cry from Vegas, but Monaco's casinos are all part of the fun. Though the formal dress code is still upheld at the legendary belle epoque-style gaming landmark (bring your passport and \u20ac10 for the entrance fee), there are three other casinos \u2013 the Cafe de Paris, the Sun Casino inside the Fairmont Hotel, and the Monte-Carlo Bay \u2013 where casual attire rules and no fee is required. Expect cutting-edge models of slot machines (there are no sirens or jangling coins here \u2013 the machine discreetly prints up a voucher of your winnings). One evening this August, a tourist wandered over to a hi-tech Star Wars slot machine at the Sun Casino and began to play, at 5 cents per hit. Fifteen euros later, the jackpot fell into his lap, more than \u20ac700,000.No visit is complete without a wander through the heights of Monaco-Ville, west of the harbour. The setting for the Prince's Palace and Saint Nicholas Cathedral, this area, known as Le Rocher, or the Rock, is covered with a medieval mini-maze of cobblestone streets. It's deliciously peaceful up there in the suspended exotic gardens of Saint-Martin, filled with rare succulents and towering yuccas; and the stunning panoramic view won't cost you a cent.Where to StayHotel de France (00 377 9330 2464; monte-carlo.mc/france) in the heart of the Condamine district has small but cheery doubles from \u20ac85 including breakfast. The Ni Hotel on rue Grimaldi (00 377 9797 5151; nihotel.com) has doubles from \u20ac150. A far better-value option is to stay just east of Monaco in Roquebrune Cap-Martin. The Hotel Victoria (00 33 4 9335 6590; hotel-victoria.fr) has lovely sea-facing rooms inspired by Jean Cocteau from \u20ac89. The Monaco bus stops in front of the hotel, or the principality is a nine-minute train ride away. Le Roquebrune (00 33 4 9335 0016; le-roquebrune.com) is a charming five-room B&B with private seaview terraces. Double rooms costs from \u20ac110.Where to Eat There are some stunning bakeries in Monte Carlo. Try Maison Mullot or La Roca in March\u00e9 de la Condamine for onion tarts, quiches and barbagiuans from \u20ac2.50. Tartine Monaco on route de la Piscine (00 377 9798 7070; tartinemonaco.com) is an attractive new bistro featuring fresh fish and organic salads; two-course weekday lunch \u20ac15.80. In Roquebrune, La Diff\u00e9rance on Sentier des Douaniers is a cafe with a dreamy sea view offering a plat du jour with coffee for around \u20ac12. The best pizza is at Il Triangolo on avenue de la Madone, a few steps from Casino Square in Monaco.Where to drinkLa Brasserie de Monaco, on route de la Piscine, serves organic beer brewed on the premises. It's \u20ac2 a glass at happy hour (5pm-8pm). Wine O'Clock, on avenue Saint-Laurent, has a terrace and an impressive choice of top vintages from \u20ac4 a glass.For more information see visitmonaco.com", "tags": ["Monaco holidays", "Budget travel", "City breaks", "France holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Family holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Monte Carlo on the cheap"},{"date": "2009-11-16T18:45:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The security van driver who became an internet hero after vanishing with \u20ac11.6m (\u00a310.3m) from outside a bank in Lyon today gave himself up at a police station in Monaco.Tony Musulin, the 39-year-old whose disappearance on 5 November prompted a Europe-wide manhunt, was reportedly unshaven and acting strangely when he handed himself in to investigators.Police said they did not know why Musulin, a driver for security firm Loomis, had surrendered after 11 days at the top of France's most wanted list.He was handed over to French authorities at the Jardin Exotique, a park marking the border between Monaco and France. He was expected to be returned to Lyon late tonight.The non-violent heist, which turned its alleged mastermind into a hero, began when Musulin's colleagues left a branch of Banque de France to discover that their coworker had gone, apparently taking 49 sacks of banknotes with him.Police, staggered by the audacity of the heist, at first assumed the driver had been coerced into driving off. But they soon found indications that the disgruntled employee, who often spoke of his anger at the difference in earnings between him and his colleagues and their bosses, had planned the robbery carefully.His armoured vehicle was soon found parked in Lyon, but he was nowhere to be found. Two days later, when police recovered \u20ac9.11m of the stash in a lock-up garage under Musulin's name, the suspect's whereabouts were still unknown. When he turned himself in, police said, he did not have the remainder of the money on him.Over the past week Musulin has been feted as an underdog hero driven to carry out \"the perfect crime\" by the injustices of society. One company even started selling T-shirts emblazoned with his face.Last night Facebook pages set up in support of Musulin, including \"The world is yours: Tony best driver 2009\", were reeling from the apparent anticlimax. But most admirers remained loyal. \"He's a great man,\" said one, Caroline Rimakan. \"No need to worry, he'll get rich with all the books he'll bring out.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "French 'hero' at centre of \u00a310m theft surrenders"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "On one balmy night this August, when the audience packed into the 522-seat belle epoque Monte Carlo Garnier Opera House, it felt like history was in the making. Even for Monaco, it was an unprecedented royal flush: two Princes in the same room, one singing, the other dancing.Surrounded by two glittery giant jellyfish dangling from the ceiling, Prince (the rock star) launched into a mega-decibel guitar riff. Meanwhile, His Serene Highness, Prince Albert II, hidden away in his plush red velvet royal box, was on his feet, barely able to keep still, just like the rest of the fans. The magnificent five-tonne chandelier of Bohemian crystal had been upstaged by psychedelic strobes. The gilded walls, nymphs and mythological gods were bathed in a purple glow.Call it the New Era. When Prince Rainier died in 2005 he was deeply mourned, but a page had been turned. Once considered a quieter-than-the-grave tax haven for ostentatiously wealthy expatriates, there's a flipside to Monaco. These days, the principality's stuffy image is slowly morphing into a hip, and even affordable destination, attractive to a younger crowd.This is, in part, thanks to Prince Albert, who actively supports the thriving arts scene, from the Monte Carlo Jazz Festival, which celebrates its fourth anniversary in November, to major art exhibitions at the Grimaldi Forum and the principality's latest museum, NMNM (New National Monaco Museum). There's also a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants and bars with lunchtime specials and happy hours. Or you can go native, stopping off at the bakeries to pick up freshly-baked regional specialities to feast on down at the beach.The best time to visit is September and October, when the sea is still warm and silky, and the hot silver haze of summer evaporates into the pure dazzling light of a mild autumn. No need to hire a car when the 45-minute bus ride from Nice airport is \u20ac28.50 return, or only \u20ac2.60 round trip from the centre of Nice. Since the sovereign state of Monaco is only around two kilometres square, everything is within walking distance or easily reachable by bus. (Check out the lifts built into the rock that take you from sea level to the heights of Monte Carlo).The perks continue: spend three nights in a two or three-star hotel in Monaco, and you get a voucher giving you free entry to the museums. At the top of the kid-friendly list are the guided tours of the throne room and state apartments in the dusty-pink Prince's Palace and the Oceanography Museum, with its impressive collection of bizarre coral reef marine creatures and a shark lagoon.The latest buzz is down by the port, in the Condamine neighbourhood, where the native Mon\u00e9gasques (approximately 8,000 of them, or 19% of the population) hang out. If you want to splash out, stay at the cool, new, three-star Ni Hotel, a 17-room design haven with a flashy, pop art-inspired bar, rooftop lounge, gym and stylish, hi-tech rooms.On rue Grimaldi, the same lively street as the Ni Hotel, browse the boutiques and pop into Le Dressing, a treasure trove for secondhand designer finery, from Chanel jackets to YSL silk gowns (from \u20ac300). Don't miss a morning trip to the Condamine open-air market on the Place d'Armes for a rainbow of fresh produce, from vine peaches to courgettes with yellow blossoms (used for delicately-fried flower fritters). Most of the neighbourhood bakeries here carry the inexpensive local finger food, Barbagiuan (which means Uncle John) \u2013 a fried dumpling stuffed with Swiss chard and Parmesan cheese, tian, mixed vegetables and rice, or pissaladi\u00e8re, a flat onion tart. Try Maison Mullot (first stand on the right inside the covered market), for savoury and sweet goodies, including the traditional sweet pastry, fougasse Mon\u00e9gasque.Down at the harbour, where the tiny blue-painted wooden fishing boats still unload their catch of the day, there are art galleries and rows of new cafes. Diehard lap swimmers should take advantage of the inviting outdoor, Olympic-sized, saltwater pool. For a handful of euros you can spend the afternoon basking and dunking.Come sunset, the latest after-work hotspot at the port is La Brasserie de Monaco, a friendly bar with an outdoor terrace, which serves four blends of its own organic beer. Check out the tasty cheap snacks, such as petits farcis (Provencal stuffed vegetables) and socca (a paper-thin savoury pancake made of chickpea flour and olive oil). A few doors down is Le Black Legend, a disco-style lounge that will feature Motown hits and live funk groups when it opens on Halloween.Even up on the hill the atmosphere is changing. Opened in 2008, Moods, built right under the Caf\u00e9 de Paris, is a popular music bar lounge. The drinks are very expensive \u2013 a beer starts at \u20ac8 \u2013 but the live rock, jazz or blues is free.It's a far cry from Vegas, but Monaco's casinos are all part of the fun. Though the formal dress code is still upheld at the legendary belle epoque-style gaming landmark (bring your passport and \u20ac10 for the entrance fee), there are three other casinos \u2013 the Cafe de Paris, the Sun Casino inside the Fairmont Hotel, and the Monte-Carlo Bay \u2013 where casual attire rules and no fee is required. Expect cutting-edge models of slot machines (there are no sirens or jangling coins here \u2013 the machine discreetly prints up a voucher of your winnings). One evening this August, a tourist wandered over to a hi-tech Star Wars slot machine at the Sun Casino and began to play, at 5 cents per hit. Fifteen euros later, the jackpot fell into his lap, more than \u20ac700,000.No visit is complete without a wander through the heights of Monaco-Ville, west of the harbour. The setting for the Prince's Palace and Saint Nicholas Cathedral, this area, known as Le Rocher, or the Rock, is covered with a medieval mini-maze of cobblestone streets. It's deliciously peaceful up there in the suspended exotic gardens of Saint-Martin, filled with rare succulents and towering yuccas; and the stunning panoramic view won't cost you a cent.Where to StayHotel de France (00 377 9330 2464; monte-carlo.mc/france) in the heart of the Condamine district has small but cheery doubles from \u20ac85 including breakfast. The Ni Hotel on rue Grimaldi (00 377 9797 5151; nihotel.com) has doubles from \u20ac150. A far better-value option is to stay just east of Monaco in Roquebrune Cap-Martin. The Hotel Victoria (00 33 4 9335 6590; hotel-victoria.fr) has lovely sea-facing rooms inspired by Jean Cocteau from \u20ac89. The Monaco bus stops in front of the hotel, or the principality is a nine-minute train ride away. Le Roquebrune (00 33 4 9335 0016; le-roquebrune.com) is a charming five-room B&B with private seaview terraces. Double rooms costs from \u20ac110.Where to Eat There are some stunning bakeries in Monte Carlo. Try Maison Mullot or La Roca in March\u00e9 de la Condamine for onion tarts, quiches and barbagiuans from \u20ac2.50. Tartine Monaco on route de la Piscine (00 377 9798 7070; tartinemonaco.com) is an attractive new bistro featuring fresh fish and organic salads; two-course weekday lunch \u20ac15.80. In Roquebrune, La Diff\u00e9rance on Sentier des Douaniers is a cafe with a dreamy sea view offering a plat du jour with coffee for around \u20ac12. The best pizza is at Il Triangolo on avenue de la Madone, a few steps from Casino Square in Monaco.Where to drinkLa Brasserie de Monaco, on route de la Piscine, serves organic beer brewed on the premises. It's \u20ac2 a glass at happy hour (5pm-8pm). Wine O'Clock, on avenue Saint-Laurent, has a terrace and an impressive choice of top vintages from \u20ac4 a glass.For more information see visitmonaco.com", "tags": ["Monaco holidays", "Budget travel", "City breaks", "France holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Family holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Monte Carlo on the cheap"},{"date": "2009-11-16T18:45:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The security van driver who became an internet hero after vanishing with \u20ac11.6m (\u00a310.3m) from outside a bank in Lyon today gave himself up at a police station in Monaco.Tony Musulin, the 39-year-old whose disappearance on 5 November prompted a Europe-wide manhunt, was reportedly unshaven and acting strangely when he handed himself in to investigators.Police said they did not know why Musulin, a driver for security firm Loomis, had surrendered after 11 days at the top of France's most wanted list.He was handed over to French authorities at the Jardin Exotique, a park marking the border between Monaco and France. He was expected to be returned to Lyon late tonight.The non-violent heist, which turned its alleged mastermind into a hero, began when Musulin's colleagues left a branch of Banque de France to discover that their coworker had gone, apparently taking 49 sacks of banknotes with him.Police, staggered by the audacity of the heist, at first assumed the driver had been coerced into driving off. But they soon found indications that the disgruntled employee, who often spoke of his anger at the difference in earnings between him and his colleagues and their bosses, had planned the robbery carefully.His armoured vehicle was soon found parked in Lyon, but he was nowhere to be found. Two days later, when police recovered \u20ac9.11m of the stash in a lock-up garage under Musulin's name, the suspect's whereabouts were still unknown. When he turned himself in, police said, he did not have the remainder of the money on him.Over the past week Musulin has been feted as an underdog hero driven to carry out \"the perfect crime\" by the injustices of society. One company even started selling T-shirts emblazoned with his face.Last night Facebook pages set up in support of Musulin, including \"The world is yours: Tony best driver 2009\", were reeling from the apparent anticlimax. But most admirers remained loyal. \"He's a great man,\" said one, Caroline Rimakan. \"No need to worry, he'll get rich with all the books he'll bring out.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "French 'hero' at centre of \u00a310m theft surrenders"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ever spent a night in hospital? Yes, when I crashed in Monaco in 2003. They kept me in because I was knocked out and my brainwaves were all over the place; my father said that was normal but they didn't believe him.Any notable accidents? That Monaco crash was quite a big one \u2013 I pulled 33g when I hit the wall, which is a lot. It's a weird sensation \u2013 like all my skin and flesh was being pulled off my bones. I was unconscious for 30 seconds and when I came round the doctor said, \"Are you OK? Where does it hurt?\" I said, \"My left leg, my right leg, my left arm\u2026 Doctor, it hurts everywhere.\"Do you worry about your weight? I keep my weight low, although you need to be able to move your weight around the race car to change the balance. I'm 6ft and I'm 70kg so I haven't much fat on me. I eat the right sort of food but sometimes I'm a bit naughty \u2013 I'm a big fan of a sticky toffee pudding.What exercise do you take? I've been doing triathlons, so swimming, cycling and running, also doing certain things for my core, my neck and certain muscle groups for driving. I'm heading away next week to a fitness camp in Lanzarote. It's a great place to train because there's nothing to do except train, eat and sleep.How much sleep do you need? I always sleep really well, particularly before a race, when the adrenaline's pumping.How do you relax? Exercise. I've just come back from being at home for a couple of days, where I was cycling up in the hills outside Monaco. It's tough, especially as I've had a lot of fun over the past few weeks, so it hurts getting back into training, but it's just the most beautiful place.What's your attitude to drugs? I can't even take a Lemsip because it's on the banned substance list. How crazy is that?Are you happy? Yes. It's been a tough season and even though I'm quite a positive person there were times when I needed my friends around me to lift me up. When you can't even have a Lemsip you need good mates.My Championship Year by Jenson Button is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson, \u00a320 ", "tags": ["Jenson Button", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style"], "title": "Jenson Button | Did I say that?"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "On one balmy night this August, when the audience packed into the 522-seat belle epoque Monte Carlo Garnier Opera House, it felt like history was in the making. Even for Monaco, it was an unprecedented royal flush: two Princes in the same room, one singing, the other dancing.Surrounded by two glittery giant jellyfish dangling from the ceiling, Prince (the rock star) launched into a mega-decibel guitar riff. Meanwhile, His Serene Highness, Prince Albert II, hidden away in his plush red velvet royal box, was on his feet, barely able to keep still, just like the rest of the fans. The magnificent five-tonne chandelier of Bohemian crystal had been upstaged by psychedelic strobes. The gilded walls, nymphs and mythological gods were bathed in a purple glow.Call it the New Era. When Prince Rainier died in 2005 he was deeply mourned, but a page had been turned. Once considered a quieter-than-the-grave tax haven for ostentatiously wealthy expatriates, there's a flipside to Monaco. These days, the principality's stuffy image is slowly morphing into a hip, and even affordable destination, attractive to a younger crowd.This is, in part, thanks to Prince Albert, who actively supports the thriving arts scene, from the Monte Carlo Jazz Festival, which celebrates its fourth anniversary in November, to major art exhibitions at the Grimaldi Forum and the principality's latest museum, NMNM (New National Monaco Museum). There's also a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants and bars with lunchtime specials and happy hours. Or you can go native, stopping off at the bakeries to pick up freshly-baked regional specialities to feast on down at the beach.The best time to visit is September and October, when the sea is still warm and silky, and the hot silver haze of summer evaporates into the pure dazzling light of a mild autumn. No need to hire a car when the 45-minute bus ride from Nice airport is \u20ac28.50 return, or only \u20ac2.60 round trip from the centre of Nice. Since the sovereign state of Monaco is only around two kilometres square, everything is within walking distance or easily reachable by bus. (Check out the lifts built into the rock that take you from sea level to the heights of Monte Carlo).The perks continue: spend three nights in a two or three-star hotel in Monaco, and you get a voucher giving you free entry to the museums. At the top of the kid-friendly list are the guided tours of the throne room and state apartments in the dusty-pink Prince's Palace and the Oceanography Museum, with its impressive collection of bizarre coral reef marine creatures and a shark lagoon.The latest buzz is down by the port, in the Condamine neighbourhood, where the native Mon\u00e9gasques (approximately 8,000 of them, or 19% of the population) hang out. If you want to splash out, stay at the cool, new, three-star Ni Hotel, a 17-room design haven with a flashy, pop art-inspired bar, rooftop lounge, gym and stylish, hi-tech rooms.On rue Grimaldi, the same lively street as the Ni Hotel, browse the boutiques and pop into Le Dressing, a treasure trove for secondhand designer finery, from Chanel jackets to YSL silk gowns (from \u20ac300). Don't miss a morning trip to the Condamine open-air market on the Place d'Armes for a rainbow of fresh produce, from vine peaches to courgettes with yellow blossoms (used for delicately-fried flower fritters). Most of the neighbourhood bakeries here carry the inexpensive local finger food, Barbagiuan (which means Uncle John) \u2013 a fried dumpling stuffed with Swiss chard and Parmesan cheese, tian, mixed vegetables and rice, or pissaladi\u00e8re, a flat onion tart. Try Maison Mullot (first stand on the right inside the covered market), for savoury and sweet goodies, including the traditional sweet pastry, fougasse Mon\u00e9gasque.Down at the harbour, where the tiny blue-painted wooden fishing boats still unload their catch of the day, there are art galleries and rows of new cafes. Diehard lap swimmers should take advantage of the inviting outdoor, Olympic-sized, saltwater pool. For a handful of euros you can spend the afternoon basking and dunking.Come sunset, the latest after-work hotspot at the port is La Brasserie de Monaco, a friendly bar with an outdoor terrace, which serves four blends of its own organic beer. Check out the tasty cheap snacks, such as petits farcis (Provencal stuffed vegetables) and socca (a paper-thin savoury pancake made of chickpea flour and olive oil). A few doors down is Le Black Legend, a disco-style lounge that will feature Motown hits and live funk groups when it opens on Halloween.Even up on the hill the atmosphere is changing. Opened in 2008, Moods, built right under the Caf\u00e9 de Paris, is a popular music bar lounge. The drinks are very expensive \u2013 a beer starts at \u20ac8 \u2013 but the live rock, jazz or blues is free.It's a far cry from Vegas, but Monaco's casinos are all part of the fun. Though the formal dress code is still upheld at the legendary belle epoque-style gaming landmark (bring your passport and \u20ac10 for the entrance fee), there are three other casinos \u2013 the Cafe de Paris, the Sun Casino inside the Fairmont Hotel, and the Monte-Carlo Bay \u2013 where casual attire rules and no fee is required. Expect cutting-edge models of slot machines (there are no sirens or jangling coins here \u2013 the machine discreetly prints up a voucher of your winnings). One evening this August, a tourist wandered over to a hi-tech Star Wars slot machine at the Sun Casino and began to play, at 5 cents per hit. Fifteen euros later, the jackpot fell into his lap, more than \u20ac700,000.No visit is complete without a wander through the heights of Monaco-Ville, west of the harbour. The setting for the Prince's Palace and Saint Nicholas Cathedral, this area, known as Le Rocher, or the Rock, is covered with a medieval mini-maze of cobblestone streets. It's deliciously peaceful up there in the suspended exotic gardens of Saint-Martin, filled with rare succulents and towering yuccas; and the stunning panoramic view won't cost you a cent.Where to StayHotel de France (00 377 9330 2464; monte-carlo.mc/france) in the heart of the Condamine district has small but cheery doubles from \u20ac85 including breakfast. The Ni Hotel on rue Grimaldi (00 377 9797 5151; nihotel.com) has doubles from \u20ac150. A far better-value option is to stay just east of Monaco in Roquebrune Cap-Martin. The Hotel Victoria (00 33 4 9335 6590; hotel-victoria.fr) has lovely sea-facing rooms inspired by Jean Cocteau from \u20ac89. The Monaco bus stops in front of the hotel, or the principality is a nine-minute train ride away. Le Roquebrune (00 33 4 9335 0016; le-roquebrune.com) is a charming five-room B&B with private seaview terraces. Double rooms costs from \u20ac110.Where to Eat There are some stunning bakeries in Monte Carlo. Try Maison Mullot or La Roca in March\u00e9 de la Condamine for onion tarts, quiches and barbagiuans from \u20ac2.50. Tartine Monaco on route de la Piscine (00 377 9798 7070; tartinemonaco.com) is an attractive new bistro featuring fresh fish and organic salads; two-course weekday lunch \u20ac15.80. In Roquebrune, La Diff\u00e9rance on Sentier des Douaniers is a cafe with a dreamy sea view offering a plat du jour with coffee for around \u20ac12. The best pizza is at Il Triangolo on avenue de la Madone, a few steps from Casino Square in Monaco.Where to drinkLa Brasserie de Monaco, on route de la Piscine, serves organic beer brewed on the premises. It's \u20ac2 a glass at happy hour (5pm-8pm). Wine O'Clock, on avenue Saint-Laurent, has a terrace and an impressive choice of top vintages from \u20ac4 a glass.For more information see visitmonaco.com", "tags": ["Monaco holidays", "Budget travel", "City breaks", "France holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Family holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Monte Carlo on the cheap"},{"date": "2009-11-16T18:45:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The security van driver who became an internet hero after vanishing with \u20ac11.6m (\u00a310.3m) from outside a bank in Lyon today gave himself up at a police station in Monaco.Tony Musulin, the 39-year-old whose disappearance on 5 November prompted a Europe-wide manhunt, was reportedly unshaven and acting strangely when he handed himself in to investigators.Police said they did not know why Musulin, a driver for security firm Loomis, had surrendered after 11 days at the top of France's most wanted list.He was handed over to French authorities at the Jardin Exotique, a park marking the border between Monaco and France. He was expected to be returned to Lyon late tonight.The non-violent heist, which turned its alleged mastermind into a hero, began when Musulin's colleagues left a branch of Banque de France to discover that their coworker had gone, apparently taking 49 sacks of banknotes with him.Police, staggered by the audacity of the heist, at first assumed the driver had been coerced into driving off. But they soon found indications that the disgruntled employee, who often spoke of his anger at the difference in earnings between him and his colleagues and their bosses, had planned the robbery carefully.His armoured vehicle was soon found parked in Lyon, but he was nowhere to be found. Two days later, when police recovered \u20ac9.11m of the stash in a lock-up garage under Musulin's name, the suspect's whereabouts were still unknown. When he turned himself in, police said, he did not have the remainder of the money on him.Over the past week Musulin has been feted as an underdog hero driven to carry out \"the perfect crime\" by the injustices of society. One company even started selling T-shirts emblazoned with his face.Last night Facebook pages set up in support of Musulin, including \"The world is yours: Tony best driver 2009\", were reeling from the apparent anticlimax. But most admirers remained loyal. \"He's a great man,\" said one, Caroline Rimakan. \"No need to worry, he'll get rich with all the books he'll bring out.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "French 'hero' at centre of \u00a310m theft surrenders"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ever spent a night in hospital? Yes, when I crashed in Monaco in 2003. They kept me in because I was knocked out and my brainwaves were all over the place; my father said that was normal but they didn't believe him.Any notable accidents? That Monaco crash was quite a big one \u2013 I pulled 33g when I hit the wall, which is a lot. It's a weird sensation \u2013 like all my skin and flesh was being pulled off my bones. I was unconscious for 30 seconds and when I came round the doctor said, \"Are you OK? Where does it hurt?\" I said, \"My left leg, my right leg, my left arm\u2026 Doctor, it hurts everywhere.\"Do you worry about your weight? I keep my weight low, although you need to be able to move your weight around the race car to change the balance. I'm 6ft and I'm 70kg so I haven't much fat on me. I eat the right sort of food but sometimes I'm a bit naughty \u2013 I'm a big fan of a sticky toffee pudding.What exercise do you take? I've been doing triathlons, so swimming, cycling and running, also doing certain things for my core, my neck and certain muscle groups for driving. I'm heading away next week to a fitness camp in Lanzarote. It's a great place to train because there's nothing to do except train, eat and sleep.How much sleep do you need? I always sleep really well, particularly before a race, when the adrenaline's pumping.How do you relax? Exercise. I've just come back from being at home for a couple of days, where I was cycling up in the hills outside Monaco. It's tough, especially as I've had a lot of fun over the past few weeks, so it hurts getting back into training, but it's just the most beautiful place.What's your attitude to drugs? I can't even take a Lemsip because it's on the banned substance list. How crazy is that?Are you happy? Yes. It's been a tough season and even though I'm quite a positive person there were times when I needed my friends around me to lift me up. When you can't even have a Lemsip you need good mates.My Championship Year by Jenson Button is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson, \u00a320 ", "tags": ["Jenson Button", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style"], "title": "Jenson Button | Did I say that?"},{"date": "2009-12-16T11:30:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "One of my trader buddies, Mark, made an announcement this morning. During a brief moment of calm in the markets he paused to tell us of his discovery. He has done the research and found out that all 38 West Ham Premier League games can be watched live in full HD from his new sea-facing living room in Gibraltar (something he can't even do in east London, next to the stadium itself).The fear that new tax laws will bring about the mass emigration of our wealthiest is not a new phenomenon. Since taxes began, people have moved away from them. Today it's a bit more complicated. While there are advantages to moving to somewhere near the UK, like Jersey, where income tax is a flat 20% and there is no VAT, you would be living in Jersey. Spain has always been popular for UK emigres, and with a top band of about 45% it still offers a 10% saving at least for our top earners. Israel announced at the end of last year that any new immigrants or returning citizens would be entitled to 10 years of untaxed foreign income. Then you have true tax havens such as Monaco, which levies no tax at all on its citizens.The problem is that tax implications are only one of a multitude of factors considered when moving abroad. Usually, wealthy expat communities tend to grow about high-quality international schools. Sometimes, when one is not available, they have to build it. Political uncertainty is another factor; although all the examples listed above are fairly innocuous, many people have moved to Asia and Africa and suffered the consequences of a lack of economic infrastructure. Think also of the traditional Muslim family who have moved to Switzerland and lack a place of worship. The cost of moving is an immediate concern and while properties in Spain are cheap even with the euro soaring, Switzerland and Monaco still maintain a premium on property value.On the other hand, the spread of low-cost flights and airports has made returning ever easier. International commuting is a very real prospect for many. But more than tax and travel, it is technology that has allowed bankers to emigrate with real confidence. Most trading is now done by computer, linked directly to the exchange by dedicated fibre optics. From my desk I can trade on any market in the world, so why does it matter where the desk is?It is a balancing act, and one that will tip away from the UK whenever there is a tax increase. I wonder which outcome people would prefer: bankers leaving and taking their money with them, or claiming Zac Goldsmith-style non-domiciled status and at least spending some of it here, with the VAT going to the Treasury.", "tags": ["Tax", "Tax and spending", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Politics", "Money", "Expat finance", "UK news", "World news", "Banking"], "title": "The tax factor | The Spoon"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "On one balmy night this August, when the audience packed into the 522-seat belle epoque Monte Carlo Garnier Opera House, it felt like history was in the making. Even for Monaco, it was an unprecedented royal flush: two Princes in the same room, one singing, the other dancing.Surrounded by two glittery giant jellyfish dangling from the ceiling, Prince (the rock star) launched into a mega-decibel guitar riff. Meanwhile, His Serene Highness, Prince Albert II, hidden away in his plush red velvet royal box, was on his feet, barely able to keep still, just like the rest of the fans. The magnificent five-tonne chandelier of Bohemian crystal had been upstaged by psychedelic strobes. The gilded walls, nymphs and mythological gods were bathed in a purple glow.Call it the New Era. When Prince Rainier died in 2005 he was deeply mourned, but a page had been turned. Once considered a quieter-than-the-grave tax haven for ostentatiously wealthy expatriates, there's a flipside to Monaco. These days, the principality's stuffy image is slowly morphing into a hip, and even affordable destination, attractive to a younger crowd.This is, in part, thanks to Prince Albert, who actively supports the thriving arts scene, from the Monte Carlo Jazz Festival, which celebrates its fourth anniversary in November, to major art exhibitions at the Grimaldi Forum and the principality's latest museum, NMNM (New National Monaco Museum). There's also a new wave of reasonably priced restaurants and bars with lunchtime specials and happy hours. Or you can go native, stopping off at the bakeries to pick up freshly-baked regional specialities to feast on down at the beach.The best time to visit is September and October, when the sea is still warm and silky, and the hot silver haze of summer evaporates into the pure dazzling light of a mild autumn. No need to hire a car when the 45-minute bus ride from Nice airport is \u20ac28.50 return, or only \u20ac2.60 round trip from the centre of Nice. Since the sovereign state of Monaco is only around two kilometres square, everything is within walking distance or easily reachable by bus. (Check out the lifts built into the rock that take you from sea level to the heights of Monte Carlo).The perks continue: spend three nights in a two or three-star hotel in Monaco, and you get a voucher giving you free entry to the museums. At the top of the kid-friendly list are the guided tours of the throne room and state apartments in the dusty-pink Prince's Palace and the Oceanography Museum, with its impressive collection of bizarre coral reef marine creatures and a shark lagoon.The latest buzz is down by the port, in the Condamine neighbourhood, where the native Mon\u00e9gasques (approximately 8,000 of them, or 19% of the population) hang out. If you want to splash out, stay at the cool, new, three-star Ni Hotel, a 17-room design haven with a flashy, pop art-inspired bar, rooftop lounge, gym and stylish, hi-tech rooms.On rue Grimaldi, the same lively street as the Ni Hotel, browse the boutiques and pop into Le Dressing, a treasure trove for secondhand designer finery, from Chanel jackets to YSL silk gowns (from \u20ac300). Don't miss a morning trip to the Condamine open-air market on the Place d'Armes for a rainbow of fresh produce, from vine peaches to courgettes with yellow blossoms (used for delicately-fried flower fritters). Most of the neighbourhood bakeries here carry the inexpensive local finger food, Barbagiuan (which means Uncle John) \u2013 a fried dumpling stuffed with Swiss chard and Parmesan cheese, tian, mixed vegetables and rice, or pissaladi\u00e8re, a flat onion tart. Try Maison Mullot (first stand on the right inside the covered market), for savoury and sweet goodies, including the traditional sweet pastry, fougasse Mon\u00e9gasque.Down at the harbour, where the tiny blue-painted wooden fishing boats still unload their catch of the day, there are art galleries and rows of new cafes. Diehard lap swimmers should take advantage of the inviting outdoor, Olympic-sized, saltwater pool. For a handful of euros you can spend the afternoon basking and dunking.Come sunset, the latest after-work hotspot at the port is La Brasserie de Monaco, a friendly bar with an outdoor terrace, which serves four blends of its own organic beer. Check out the tasty cheap snacks, such as petits farcis (Provencal stuffed vegetables) and socca (a paper-thin savoury pancake made of chickpea flour and olive oil). A few doors down is Le Black Legend, a disco-style lounge that will feature Motown hits and live funk groups when it opens on Halloween.Even up on the hill the atmosphere is changing. Opened in 2008, Moods, built right under the Caf\u00e9 de Paris, is a popular music bar lounge. The drinks are very expensive \u2013 a beer starts at \u20ac8 \u2013 but the live rock, jazz or blues is free.It's a far cry from Vegas, but Monaco's casinos are all part of the fun. Though the formal dress code is still upheld at the legendary belle epoque-style gaming landmark (bring your passport and \u20ac10 for the entrance fee), there are three other casinos \u2013 the Cafe de Paris, the Sun Casino inside the Fairmont Hotel, and the Monte-Carlo Bay \u2013 where casual attire rules and no fee is required. Expect cutting-edge models of slot machines (there are no sirens or jangling coins here \u2013 the machine discreetly prints up a voucher of your winnings). One evening this August, a tourist wandered over to a hi-tech Star Wars slot machine at the Sun Casino and began to play, at 5 cents per hit. Fifteen euros later, the jackpot fell into his lap, more than \u20ac700,000.No visit is complete without a wander through the heights of Monaco-Ville, west of the harbour. The setting for the Prince's Palace and Saint Nicholas Cathedral, this area, known as Le Rocher, or the Rock, is covered with a medieval mini-maze of cobblestone streets. It's deliciously peaceful up there in the suspended exotic gardens of Saint-Martin, filled with rare succulents and towering yuccas; and the stunning panoramic view won't cost you a cent.Where to StayHotel de France (00 377 9330 2464; monte-carlo.mc/france) in the heart of the Condamine district has small but cheery doubles from \u20ac85 including breakfast. The Ni Hotel on rue Grimaldi (00 377 9797 5151; nihotel.com) has doubles from \u20ac150. A far better-value option is to stay just east of Monaco in Roquebrune Cap-Martin. The Hotel Victoria (00 33 4 9335 6590; hotel-victoria.fr) has lovely sea-facing rooms inspired by Jean Cocteau from \u20ac89. The Monaco bus stops in front of the hotel, or the principality is a nine-minute train ride away. Le Roquebrune (00 33 4 9335 0016; le-roquebrune.com) is a charming five-room B&B with private seaview terraces. Double rooms costs from \u20ac110.Where to Eat There are some stunning bakeries in Monte Carlo. Try Maison Mullot or La Roca in March\u00e9 de la Condamine for onion tarts, quiches and barbagiuans from \u20ac2.50. Tartine Monaco on route de la Piscine (00 377 9798 7070; tartinemonaco.com) is an attractive new bistro featuring fresh fish and organic salads; two-course weekday lunch \u20ac15.80. In Roquebrune, La Diff\u00e9rance on Sentier des Douaniers is a cafe with a dreamy sea view offering a plat du jour with coffee for around \u20ac12. The best pizza is at Il Triangolo on avenue de la Madone, a few steps from Casino Square in Monaco.Where to drinkLa Brasserie de Monaco, on route de la Piscine, serves organic beer brewed on the premises. It's \u20ac2 a glass at happy hour (5pm-8pm). Wine O'Clock, on avenue Saint-Laurent, has a terrace and an impressive choice of top vintages from \u20ac4 a glass.For more information see visitmonaco.com", "tags": ["Monaco holidays", "Budget travel", "City breaks", "France holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Short breaks", "Family holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Monte Carlo on the cheap"},{"date": "2009-11-16T18:45:23Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The security van driver who became an internet hero after vanishing with \u20ac11.6m (\u00a310.3m) from outside a bank in Lyon today gave himself up at a police station in Monaco.Tony Musulin, the 39-year-old whose disappearance on 5 November prompted a Europe-wide manhunt, was reportedly unshaven and acting strangely when he handed himself in to investigators.Police said they did not know why Musulin, a driver for security firm Loomis, had surrendered after 11 days at the top of France's most wanted list.He was handed over to French authorities at the Jardin Exotique, a park marking the border between Monaco and France. He was expected to be returned to Lyon late tonight.The non-violent heist, which turned its alleged mastermind into a hero, began when Musulin's colleagues left a branch of Banque de France to discover that their coworker had gone, apparently taking 49 sacks of banknotes with him.Police, staggered by the audacity of the heist, at first assumed the driver had been coerced into driving off. But they soon found indications that the disgruntled employee, who often spoke of his anger at the difference in earnings between him and his colleagues and their bosses, had planned the robbery carefully.His armoured vehicle was soon found parked in Lyon, but he was nowhere to be found. Two days later, when police recovered \u20ac9.11m of the stash in a lock-up garage under Musulin's name, the suspect's whereabouts were still unknown. When he turned himself in, police said, he did not have the remainder of the money on him.Over the past week Musulin has been feted as an underdog hero driven to carry out \"the perfect crime\" by the injustices of society. One company even started selling T-shirts emblazoned with his face.Last night Facebook pages set up in support of Musulin, including \"The world is yours: Tony best driver 2009\", were reeling from the apparent anticlimax. But most admirers remained loyal. \"He's a great man,\" said one, Caroline Rimakan. \"No need to worry, he'll get rich with all the books he'll bring out.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "French 'hero' at centre of \u00a310m theft surrenders"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ever spent a night in hospital? Yes, when I crashed in Monaco in 2003. They kept me in because I was knocked out and my brainwaves were all over the place; my father said that was normal but they didn't believe him.Any notable accidents? That Monaco crash was quite a big one \u2013 I pulled 33g when I hit the wall, which is a lot. It's a weird sensation \u2013 like all my skin and flesh was being pulled off my bones. I was unconscious for 30 seconds and when I came round the doctor said, \"Are you OK? Where does it hurt?\" I said, \"My left leg, my right leg, my left arm\u2026 Doctor, it hurts everywhere.\"Do you worry about your weight? I keep my weight low, although you need to be able to move your weight around the race car to change the balance. I'm 6ft and I'm 70kg so I haven't much fat on me. I eat the right sort of food but sometimes I'm a bit naughty \u2013 I'm a big fan of a sticky toffee pudding.What exercise do you take? I've been doing triathlons, so swimming, cycling and running, also doing certain things for my core, my neck and certain muscle groups for driving. I'm heading away next week to a fitness camp in Lanzarote. It's a great place to train because there's nothing to do except train, eat and sleep.How much sleep do you need? I always sleep really well, particularly before a race, when the adrenaline's pumping.How do you relax? Exercise. I've just come back from being at home for a couple of days, where I was cycling up in the hills outside Monaco. It's tough, especially as I've had a lot of fun over the past few weeks, so it hurts getting back into training, but it's just the most beautiful place.What's your attitude to drugs? I can't even take a Lemsip because it's on the banned substance list. How crazy is that?Are you happy? Yes. It's been a tough season and even though I'm quite a positive person there were times when I needed my friends around me to lift me up. When you can't even have a Lemsip you need good mates.My Championship Year by Jenson Button is published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson, \u00a320 ", "tags": ["Jenson Button", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style"], "title": "Jenson Button | Did I say that?"},{"date": "2009-12-16T11:30:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "One of my trader buddies, Mark, made an announcement this morning. During a brief moment of calm in the markets he paused to tell us of his discovery. He has done the research and found out that all 38 West Ham Premier League games can be watched live in full HD from his new sea-facing living room in Gibraltar (something he can't even do in east London, next to the stadium itself).The fear that new tax laws will bring about the mass emigration of our wealthiest is not a new phenomenon. Since taxes began, people have moved away from them. Today it's a bit more complicated. While there are advantages to moving to somewhere near the UK, like Jersey, where income tax is a flat 20% and there is no VAT, you would be living in Jersey. Spain has always been popular for UK emigres, and with a top band of about 45% it still offers a 10% saving at least for our top earners. Israel announced at the end of last year that any new immigrants or returning citizens would be entitled to 10 years of untaxed foreign income. Then you have true tax havens such as Monaco, which levies no tax at all on its citizens.The problem is that tax implications are only one of a multitude of factors considered when moving abroad. Usually, wealthy expat communities tend to grow about high-quality international schools. Sometimes, when one is not available, they have to build it. Political uncertainty is another factor; although all the examples listed above are fairly innocuous, many people have moved to Asia and Africa and suffered the consequences of a lack of economic infrastructure. Think also of the traditional Muslim family who have moved to Switzerland and lack a place of worship. The cost of moving is an immediate concern and while properties in Spain are cheap even with the euro soaring, Switzerland and Monaco still maintain a premium on property value.On the other hand, the spread of low-cost flights and airports has made returning ever easier. International commuting is a very real prospect for many. But more than tax and travel, it is technology that has allowed bankers to emigrate with real confidence. Most trading is now done by computer, linked directly to the exchange by dedicated fibre optics. From my desk I can trade on any market in the world, so why does it matter where the desk is?It is a balancing act, and one that will tip away from the UK whenever there is a tax increase. I wonder which outcome people would prefer: bankers leaving and taking their money with them, or claiming Zac Goldsmith-style non-domiciled status and at least spending some of it here, with the VAT going to the Treasury.", "tags": ["Tax", "Tax and spending", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Politics", "Money", "Expat finance", "UK news", "World news", "Banking"], "title": "The tax factor | The Spoon"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:15:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Queen has warned freelance photographers with powerful lenses who were planning to spend Christmas staking out the Sandringham estate in the hope of snatched shots of her family that their activities will no longer be tolerated. The move is widely seen as the first step in a more general toughening of the right to a zone of privacy, which the courts now tend to take as protected by the Human Rights Act. The decision, taken in consultation with a leading media lawyer, raises two points. First, that the right to privacy is now seen by some to be becoming a kind of trump card that wins whenever conflicting rights are balanced. Second, by demanding the same rights as celebrities, the Queen is drawing attention again to the distinction between her own royal status and that of the fleeting fame of the mere personality. Being a ruling sovereign, or sovereign in waiting, is quite different from being the rat-eating winner of a reality TV show. Perhaps there is a distinction in rights too.It has been five years since another Euro-royal, Princess Caroline of Monaco, won the right in the European court of human rights not to be photographed, in a case that has come to be seen as the cornerstone of the now fast developing law of privacy. Even though the pictures about which she complained had been taken in public places, the court held that she was entitled to live a life off camera. Lawyers call it the red-carpet rule. Between that ruling in 2004 and England manager Fabio Capello's successful complaint to the Press Complaints Commission about photographs taken of him and his wife on holiday this year, famous people have learned to be pretty confident that the courts will be on their side in cases where the right to privacy encounters press freedom. Mr Justice Eady, the judge who most often sits in such cases, seemed to suggest last week that privacy was no longer in practice one among several rights of equal status, but was being treated as predominant.The royal family may fear that, partly because it is now closed season for celebrities, it will become even more vulnerable to the paparazzi's attentions. It is impossible not to feel sympathy for anyone living in dread of the sudden snicker of the camera shutter, or the breakfast-time discovery of the fuzzy shot of a wardrobe malfunction. It is reasonable to insist on a right to privacy in normal circumstances. But royalty, or at least the top royals, enjoy extraordinary privileges and a unique status that lends a public interest to their off-duty lives. It seems unlikely that the Queen would finally go to court to protect her family's privacy, but such is the implication of this weekend's warning. Sandringham paparazzi may yet find themselves assuming a role of constitutional significance.", "tags": ["Privacy", "UK news"], "title": "Privacy law: Royal prerogative | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-02-18T00:05:32Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "\"Very, very worrying\" was the instant verdict of tax accountants on Tuesday, a sure sign that the court of appeal had struck a blow for common good. The judges ruled that multimillionaire Robert Gaines-Cooper could not be excused from a \u00a330m UK tax bill on the basis that he spends rather a lot of time in the Seychelles. The British home of his second wife and the British schooling of his son clearly showed where both his heart and his home lies. By respecting this reality the court will send a cold shiver around the ordinarily warm yacht marinas of Monte Carlo, where \"Monaco millionaires\" find a safe harbour from their obligations to Blighty. Encouragingly, the Gaines-Cooper ruling is only one of the signs that a cash-strapped revenue is, as it were, getting closer to havens. The taxman's probes into wealthy individuals were this week revealed to have netted \u00a3373m in the last year, an astonishing 360% increase since 2004. Meanwhile the tax rises and cuts unveiled in the Isle of Man follow the UK's move to claw back \u00a3140m from Manx coffers. No one wishes the islanders ill, of course, but with no levy at all on turnover, gifts or capital gains they have for too long been bankrolled by tax competition, not a zero-sum but a negative-sum game, which starves the world's welfare states and leaves people of moderate means to pick up bills which should be paid by the rich. Whether you're a wealthy non-dom or a non-res in a des res, the times are a changin', and the hour is right for bringing it all back home.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Tax", "Business", "Court of appeal"], "title": "In praise of ... bringing it all back home | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-08-06T18:06:26Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Sex workers and their support groups have condemned a police operation to \"out\" prostitutes even when they have not been convicted of any crime.Six street-based sex workers in Newham, east London, were named on the Metropolitan police website. Police posted their photos, full names and dates of birth.In a second case, two Polish women who were selling sex from their home in Aldgate, east London, were raided by City of London police as part of Operation Monaco.Operation Monaco was launched in May 2009 but police have admitted that just one charge of controlling a prostitute for gain has been made, as well as 52 charges for placing cards in phone boxes advertising sexual services.Police took photographs of the Polish women, who were not charged. Last Sunday, photos appeared in News of the World. The women said they were distressed by the police raid and the lack of warning that their pictures would appear in a tabloid newspaper.\"Why have the police done this to me?\" said Vicky, one of the two. \"I work as a childminder and a cleaner and do some sex work to make ends meet. I pay tax and national insurance and am not doing anything illegal. A lot of people know me, and even though the News of the World blocked out my face I'm still identifiable by my hair, clothes and jewellery.\"The women lodged a complaint with the newspaper, which removed their images from its website.\"The police were looking for money and found \u00a350 from a customer,\" she added. \"We never use drugs and are always sober when we're working. The police kept asking us over and over again if we'd been trafficked. We haven't been, and we signed a piece of paper to say that.\"If the police continue to behave like this, none of the women doing sex work will speak to them if they do have information about any crimes. I think they have been watching too much Diary of a Call Girl.\"Georgina Perry, the manager of an NHS sex work project in east London called Open Doors, said: \"I'm very disappointed with the police. They can't go around asking the community to police vulnerable women. It encourages vigilantism.\"Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: \"I suspect this is part of a pre-Olympics clean-up in east London.\"A Met spokesman said the asbos against the Newham women had been used as a last resort because they were persistent offenders, and that decisions to publicise the identities of people issued with asbos were made on a case-by-case basis.\"Association of Chief Police Officers guidelines clearly state that working with the media on operations can assist in the prevention and detection of crime.\"", "tags": ["Prostitution", "London", "Police", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Sex workers 'named and shamed' on Met police website"},{"date": "2010-08-06T18:06:26Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Sex workers and their support groups have condemned a police operation to \"out\" prostitutes even when they have not been convicted of any crime.Six street-based sex workers in Newham, east London, were named on the Metropolitan police website. Police posted their photos, full names and dates of birth.In a second case, two Polish women who were selling sex from their home in Aldgate, east London, were raided by City of London police as part of Operation Monaco.Operation Monaco was launched in May 2009 but police have admitted that just one charge of controlling a prostitute for gain has been made, as well as 52 charges for placing cards in phone boxes advertising sexual services.Police took photographs of the Polish women, who were not charged. Last Sunday, photos appeared in News of the World. The women said they were distressed by the police raid and the lack of warning that their pictures would appear in a tabloid newspaper.\"Why have the police done this to me?\" said Vicky, one of the two. \"I work as a childminder and a cleaner and do some sex work to make ends meet. I pay tax and national insurance and am not doing anything illegal. A lot of people know me, and even though the News of the World blocked out my face I'm still identifiable by my hair, clothes and jewellery.\"The women lodged a complaint with the newspaper, which removed their images from its website.\"The police were looking for money and found \u00a350 from a customer,\" she added. \"We never use drugs and are always sober when we're working. The police kept asking us over and over again if we'd been trafficked. We haven't been, and we signed a piece of paper to say that.\"If the police continue to behave like this, none of the women doing sex work will speak to them if they do have information about any crimes. I think they have been watching too much Diary of a Call Girl.\"Georgina Perry, the manager of an NHS sex work project in east London called Open Doors, said: \"I'm very disappointed with the police. They can't go around asking the community to police vulnerable women. It encourages vigilantism.\"Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: \"I suspect this is part of a pre-Olympics clean-up in east London.\"A Met spokesman said the asbos against the Newham women had been used as a last resort because they were persistent offenders, and that decisions to publicise the identities of people issued with asbos were made on a case-by-case basis.\"Association of Chief Police Officers guidelines clearly state that working with the media on operations can assist in the prevention and detection of crime.\"", "tags": ["Prostitution", "London", "Police", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Sex workers 'named and shamed' on Met police website"},{"date": "2010-08-18T21:00:19Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Yay! Can hardly believe it's 100 days, which is only *frowns, counts fingers* five leg-waxes or three haircuts, slightly more I suppose if you have highlights, and yet so much has happened, even things they said were impossible like the log basket arriving from Romania *faints*.Dave said why not try those descriptive thingys people do on Twitter because if my diaries are read in future *blushes* he thinks they will really bring the writing *holds pen* to life. Really *weeps with relief* it's only snagging stuff now, in the flat, though we'll have to replace the rug *cross face* where Sir Philip was so ill after the fight, but Dave said chill babes, you can't pass a political milestone like this without a celebration and he's probably never played a proper drinking game before, are they even legal in Monaco?And until all the fuss about change, everyone was loving Honest Phil's Topshop To Go discount rail, typical Huhne to fuss about a few pounds and of course Phil would have paid him back if it hadn't been for that last game of Find the Lady. Oik's still upset but I know he's heard worse than \"get me another drink, you fucking tosser\" at Oxford if it wasn't with the Deripaskas, though I suppose they say it in Russian.But I am a bit worried *worried face* because Philip is Dave's first big fashion appointment, and if he can't fit in with the other boys God knows how they'll take to Johnnie Boden at the foreign office. Then I'd pencilled Sadie Frost for the BBC cuts and Kate Moss at education. Because Kate is in her understated way such a hard worker with a total horror of waste, says you could save millions by making one school dinner feed three, plus the children would look and feel fabulous.The rag trade is full of amazing thinkers, look at the Prada gel bag, so it's terribly unfair I said to *crosses self* Cable, when he started playing up, to hold zero political experience against them. I mean, 100 days ago Oik could barely count and now look, so before you rubbish Honest Phil ask yourself what you know about Topshop.As seen by Catherine Bennett", "tags": ["Samantha Cameron"], "title": "Mrs Cameron's diary"},{"date": "2010-08-06T18:06:26Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Sex workers and their support groups have condemned a police operation to \"out\" prostitutes even when they have not been convicted of any crime.Six street-based sex workers in Newham, east London, were named on the Metropolitan police website. Police posted their photos, full names and dates of birth.In a second case, two Polish women who were selling sex from their home in Aldgate, east London, were raided by City of London police as part of Operation Monaco.Operation Monaco was launched in May 2009 but police have admitted that just one charge of controlling a prostitute for gain has been made, as well as 52 charges for placing cards in phone boxes advertising sexual services.Police took photographs of the Polish women, who were not charged. Last Sunday, photos appeared in News of the World. The women said they were distressed by the police raid and the lack of warning that their pictures would appear in a tabloid newspaper.\"Why have the police done this to me?\" said Vicky, one of the two. \"I work as a childminder and a cleaner and do some sex work to make ends meet. I pay tax and national insurance and am not doing anything illegal. A lot of people know me, and even though the News of the World blocked out my face I'm still identifiable by my hair, clothes and jewellery.\"The women lodged a complaint with the newspaper, which removed their images from its website.\"The police were looking for money and found \u00a350 from a customer,\" she added. \"We never use drugs and are always sober when we're working. The police kept asking us over and over again if we'd been trafficked. We haven't been, and we signed a piece of paper to say that.\"If the police continue to behave like this, none of the women doing sex work will speak to them if they do have information about any crimes. I think they have been watching too much Diary of a Call Girl.\"Georgina Perry, the manager of an NHS sex work project in east London called Open Doors, said: \"I'm very disappointed with the police. They can't go around asking the community to police vulnerable women. It encourages vigilantism.\"Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: \"I suspect this is part of a pre-Olympics clean-up in east London.\"A Met spokesman said the asbos against the Newham women had been used as a last resort because they were persistent offenders, and that decisions to publicise the identities of people issued with asbos were made on a case-by-case basis.\"Association of Chief Police Officers guidelines clearly state that working with the media on operations can assist in the prevention and detection of crime.\"", "tags": ["Prostitution", "London", "Police", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Sex workers 'named and shamed' on Met police website"},{"date": "2010-08-18T21:00:19Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Yay! Can hardly believe it's 100 days, which is only *frowns, counts fingers* five leg-waxes or three haircuts, slightly more I suppose if you have highlights, and yet so much has happened, even things they said were impossible like the log basket arriving from Romania *faints*.Dave said why not try those descriptive thingys people do on Twitter because if my diaries are read in future *blushes* he thinks they will really bring the writing *holds pen* to life. Really *weeps with relief* it's only snagging stuff now, in the flat, though we'll have to replace the rug *cross face* where Sir Philip was so ill after the fight, but Dave said chill babes, you can't pass a political milestone like this without a celebration and he's probably never played a proper drinking game before, are they even legal in Monaco?And until all the fuss about change, everyone was loving Honest Phil's Topshop To Go discount rail, typical Huhne to fuss about a few pounds and of course Phil would have paid him back if it hadn't been for that last game of Find the Lady. Oik's still upset but I know he's heard worse than \"get me another drink, you fucking tosser\" at Oxford if it wasn't with the Deripaskas, though I suppose they say it in Russian.But I am a bit worried *worried face* because Philip is Dave's first big fashion appointment, and if he can't fit in with the other boys God knows how they'll take to Johnnie Boden at the foreign office. Then I'd pencilled Sadie Frost for the BBC cuts and Kate Moss at education. Because Kate is in her understated way such a hard worker with a total horror of waste, says you could save millions by making one school dinner feed three, plus the children would look and feel fabulous.The rag trade is full of amazing thinkers, look at the Prada gel bag, so it's terribly unfair I said to *crosses self* Cable, when he started playing up, to hold zero political experience against them. I mean, 100 days ago Oik could barely count and now look, so before you rubbish Honest Phil ask yourself what you know about Topshop.As seen by Catherine Bennett", "tags": ["Samantha Cameron"], "title": "Mrs Cameron's diary"},{"date": "2010-09-17T18:26:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "A clampdown on tax avoidance among the super rich is to be announced at the Liberal Democrat conference next week as part of a drive to show that Nick Clegg's party remains committed to fairness.David Cameron has given the Lib Dems clearance to announce introduction of measures against tax avoidance. The Treasury held back from any move in the budget in June to allow consultation.With the left of the party anxious ver some parts of the coalition's programme, Clegg is expected to deliver \"a chin up, chest out\" speech, emphasising that distinctive Liberal Democrat policies are being put into action for the first time in the party's history.In an interview with Guardian, Danny Alexander, the Treasury chief secretary, insists that \"people should pay their fair share of taxation\". He said: \"It's very important we identify measures to lower that tax gap, to make sure that everyone meets their obligation to pay tax. That has to be part of the equation. That is something we are looking at in the Treasury. It is something we looked at in opposition.\"Before the election the Liberal Democrats estimated that a general anti-avoidance rule could raise \u00a32.1bn in corporation tax per year, but many see such a proposal as too intrusive and likely to hand the Inland Revenue excessive powers. A review into non-domicile tax status has yet to be completed.Alexander drew fire in August for appointing Sir Philip Green, the Monaco-based billionaire retailer, to oversee a government efficiency review. today, while defending the appointment, he also said: \"I hold no candle for Sir Philip.\"Sir Philip has been criticised for the way his Topshop and BHS family business is largely owned by his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco. Although he pays tax in the UK, the arrangement is thought to save them tens of millions of pounds in tax.The Treasury on Thursday condemned the UK's staggering \u00a342bn tax gap, the difference between tax collected and tax that should in theory or in law be collected.Alexander, overseeing the most difficult spending round since the war, regards taking on tax avoidance as vital to show the government is spreading fairly the responsibility for tackling the deficit.In the face of polls showing support for the coalition deficit programme is dropping, Alexander issued an uncompromising message, saying: \"This has to be done. We inherited from the previous government the largest structural deficit in Europe. Public finances had never been this bad in modern times. This year the government was spending \u00a3150bn more than we raised in taxation. Under Labour, for every \u00a34 spent, \u00a31 had to be borrowed. That is not a sustainable situation.\"He conceded that some cuts due to be announced on 20 October were going to be \"very, very difficult\" for some people. \"Some things people value are going to have be cut, and, yes, some things will have to end.\"He also used the interview to say that \"the economy is out of the danger zone\", but the recovery will be choppy; that some union leaders were trying to mislead public sector workers \"into not doing right by the country\"; and that the coalition would stick with the deficit reduction programme, even if growth emerged to be lower than the 2.6 % forecast for 2011.Axlexander also claimed the coalition had a mandate from the electorate to eradicate the structural deficit by 2015, saying \"there is a widespread understanding for what we are doing\". He argued: \"When we came into office, there was a serious danger inside the eurozone \u2013 questions were being asked about the ability of countries to pay off their debt.\"Those sort of questions could have started to have been asked of the UK. We have taken the country out of the danger zone by acting swiftly.\"He also defended the fairness of the emergency budget and his approach to the spending round. \"If you look at what we've done from April 1, 900,000 low-paid workers will no longer pay income tax, a first step to a \u00a310,000 tax-free threshold. There is a pay freeze where people who earn less than \u00a321,000 will still get a pay rise.\"We've increased capital gains tax. We have reintroduced the earnings link for pensions. Labour had 13 years to do this and we have done this in 13 weeks. So I am not going to take any lecture on fairness from Labour.\"A central figure in negotiating the coaliton in the dramatic days after the election, he denies any suggestion that the two parties could merge or create an informal pact at the next election. He knew the government would have to make some very unpopular decisions, but he denied his party was losing its identity.\"I think what the government set out to do over five years was a blend \u2013 I'd say a pretty even blend \u2013 of Lib Dem and Conservative ideas. People will have to judge us over 5 years. People will have to judge what we said we were going to deliver. We have been effective in doing that.\"", "tags": ["Liberal Democrat conference 2010", "Public sector cuts", "Tax avoidance", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Danny Alexander", "UK news", "Public finance"], "title": "Liberal Democrats to announce clampdown on tax avoidance"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-12-03T23:43:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The new US owners of Cadbury's chocolate are working on a secret plan to shift key parts of the 186-year-old British business to Switzerland in a move likely to deprive the UK exchequer of millions of pounds of tax.Kraft, which took control of Cadbury in an \u00a311bn takeover this year, intends to turn the firm into a subsidiary of a new Swiss company. The new structure would slash its bill for UK corporation tax. Last year, Cadbury handed over \u00a3200m to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.Kraft's plans, uncovered by the Guardian, are likely to fuel anger at the manoeuvres used by big corporations to avoid tax. A fast-growing group of activists, inspired by the UK Uncut group, plan to protest tomorrow in nine cities across the country against what they view as unfair tax avoidance by big companies on high streets.The activists insist a clampdown on tax avoidance would reduce the government's \u00a383bn of public spending cuts. The protests will target fashion stores such as Topshop, Burton and Miss Selfridge, all owned by Sir Philip Green. The billionaire made corporate history five years ago when his Arcadia retail empire paid a \u00a31.2bn dividend to his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco.Green, who has claimed his personal tax affairs are \"not relevant\", has recently advised the coalition on efficiency savings. Other companies targeted include Boots, Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC.Kraft uses a Swiss ownership structure for its existing UK business. A spokesman said it was \"integrating Cadbury into this model\". He said \"Switzerland is a tax efficient location\", but insisted the decision to change Cadbury's legal structure is \"about growing the top line of the company\".The vast majority of the Cadbury workforce would be unaffected by the change.UK Uncut's protests were prompted by reports that UK tax authorities had dropped a bid to recoup \u00a36bn in taxes from Vodafone, which are said to have stemmed from the firm allegedly using a Luxembourg offshoot. Vodafone has described the claims as \"urban myth\".Last month, the anti-poverty campaign group ActionAid accused the world's second biggest beer company, SABMiller, of avoiding millions of pounds in tax in India and Africa by routing profits through tax-haven subsidiaries. London-based SABMiller denied the allegations and said there were \"sound commercial reasons for the location of its subsidiaries\".", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Corporate governance", "Tax avoidance", "Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business"], "title": "Cadbury's secret Swiss move will cost UK exchequer millions in tax"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-12-03T23:43:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The new US owners of Cadbury's chocolate are working on a secret plan to shift key parts of the 186-year-old British business to Switzerland in a move likely to deprive the UK exchequer of millions of pounds of tax.Kraft, which took control of Cadbury in an \u00a311bn takeover this year, intends to turn the firm into a subsidiary of a new Swiss company. The new structure would slash its bill for UK corporation tax. Last year, Cadbury handed over \u00a3200m to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.Kraft's plans, uncovered by the Guardian, are likely to fuel anger at the manoeuvres used by big corporations to avoid tax. A fast-growing group of activists, inspired by the UK Uncut group, plan to protest tomorrow in nine cities across the country against what they view as unfair tax avoidance by big companies on high streets.The activists insist a clampdown on tax avoidance would reduce the government's \u00a383bn of public spending cuts. The protests will target fashion stores such as Topshop, Burton and Miss Selfridge, all owned by Sir Philip Green. The billionaire made corporate history five years ago when his Arcadia retail empire paid a \u00a31.2bn dividend to his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco.Green, who has claimed his personal tax affairs are \"not relevant\", has recently advised the coalition on efficiency savings. Other companies targeted include Boots, Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC.Kraft uses a Swiss ownership structure for its existing UK business. A spokesman said it was \"integrating Cadbury into this model\". He said \"Switzerland is a tax efficient location\", but insisted the decision to change Cadbury's legal structure is \"about growing the top line of the company\".The vast majority of the Cadbury workforce would be unaffected by the change.UK Uncut's protests were prompted by reports that UK tax authorities had dropped a bid to recoup \u00a36bn in taxes from Vodafone, which are said to have stemmed from the firm allegedly using a Luxembourg offshoot. Vodafone has described the claims as \"urban myth\".Last month, the anti-poverty campaign group ActionAid accused the world's second biggest beer company, SABMiller, of avoiding millions of pounds in tax in India and Africa by routing profits through tax-haven subsidiaries. London-based SABMiller denied the allegations and said there were \"sound commercial reasons for the location of its subsidiaries\".", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Corporate governance", "Tax avoidance", "Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business"], "title": "Cadbury's secret Swiss move will cost UK exchequer millions in tax"},{"date": "2010-12-17T14:17:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Protesters against corporate tax avoidance plan to target Vodafone and Top Shop outlets in more than 50 towns and cities around Britain tomorrow in the biggest day of action by the UK Uncut group so far.The action, on traditionally the busiest pre-Christmas high street shopping day, will also be aimed at other stores \u2013 but the main focus will be Vodafone and outlets run by Sir Philip Green's Arcadia group.The protests are organised locally \u2013 UK Uncut is a loose alliance of activists with little formal structure \u2013 making it hard to gauge the scale of tomorrow's events, but the group's website has a list of more than 50 planned demonstrations around the country.Most are likely to involve sit-ins of the sort which forced several branches of Vodafone and Top Shop to close briefly a fortnight ago, among them the latter's flagship store on Oxford Circus in central London.However, the UK Uncut group in Brighton is promising a wider \"disruptive tour of Brighton's biggest tax-dodgers\" while the plan in Oxford is called the Monaco Tax Dodger Grand Prix \u2013 a reference to the tax haven residence of Green's wife, Tina, in whose name the bulk of the family business empire is registered.The biggest protest is again likely to be in London, where the group aims to emphasise what it says is the link between tax avoidance by corporations and rich individuals and the current round of government spending cuts.One contingent plans to hold a mock school sports day in the Oxford Circus Top Shop to protest against cuts to sports funding, while Vodafone's nearby flagship outlet will see a silent \"read-in\" to highlight cuts to libraries.Daniel Garvin, of UK Uncut, said the group was aware that high streets would be extremely busy. \"So far, members of the public have been very supportive, but we don't want to disrupt people too much,\" he said.\"The London protests will be limited to two hours, and we hope to keep shoppers informed about what's happening.\"UK Uncut \u2013 which has spread rapidly in a matter of months, mainly through social media such as Facebook and Twitter \u2013 claims a clampdown on corporate tax avoidance could bring the government an extra \u00a325bn a year, greatly reducing the need for spending cuts.Tax protesters claim Vodafone was let off an unpaid tax bill of \u00a36bn, a figure tax authorities described as \"an urban myth\".The focus on Top Shop is based around savings made by Tina Green's residency in Monaco, which enabled her to receive a \u00a31.2bn dividend in 2005 tax free. Her husband, who has been advising the government on efficiency savings, insists he pays a proper amount of UK tax.While corporate tax avoidance strategies are legal, UK Uncut argues that they are immoral in such financially straitened times.Interviewed by BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning, Murray Williams, a UK Uncut spokesman, said: \"What we're saying, and what people up and down the country are saying, is that that's now socially unacceptable.\"In a time when we're being told that we're all in this together and when we've all got to accept these harsh cuts to housing benefit and the NHS and take a hike in VAT ... trying to claim that these companies then don't have to pay their fair share of that too \u2013 I just don't think that's on.\"Asked whether the group would be better off putting pressure on the government to change the rules on tax, he said: \"I think this is targeting the government.\"Just because we're sat in front of a Top Shop store or in front of a Vodafone store doesn't mean this isn't putting pressure on the government.\"It's making this a big issue. It's highlighting the problem in our tax system that the super-rich often pay proportionally less tax than the poorest people in society, which surely cannot be fair at a time of these massive austerity cuts.\"Vodafone refused to say whether it was taking any measures to secure its stores against the protests, while Arcadia had no immediate comment.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Tax avoidance", "Protest", "UK news", "Business", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax protesters to target Vodafone and Top Shop"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-12-03T23:43:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The new US owners of Cadbury's chocolate are working on a secret plan to shift key parts of the 186-year-old British business to Switzerland in a move likely to deprive the UK exchequer of millions of pounds of tax.Kraft, which took control of Cadbury in an \u00a311bn takeover this year, intends to turn the firm into a subsidiary of a new Swiss company. The new structure would slash its bill for UK corporation tax. Last year, Cadbury handed over \u00a3200m to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.Kraft's plans, uncovered by the Guardian, are likely to fuel anger at the manoeuvres used by big corporations to avoid tax. A fast-growing group of activists, inspired by the UK Uncut group, plan to protest tomorrow in nine cities across the country against what they view as unfair tax avoidance by big companies on high streets.The activists insist a clampdown on tax avoidance would reduce the government's \u00a383bn of public spending cuts. The protests will target fashion stores such as Topshop, Burton and Miss Selfridge, all owned by Sir Philip Green. The billionaire made corporate history five years ago when his Arcadia retail empire paid a \u00a31.2bn dividend to his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco.Green, who has claimed his personal tax affairs are \"not relevant\", has recently advised the coalition on efficiency savings. Other companies targeted include Boots, Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC.Kraft uses a Swiss ownership structure for its existing UK business. A spokesman said it was \"integrating Cadbury into this model\". He said \"Switzerland is a tax efficient location\", but insisted the decision to change Cadbury's legal structure is \"about growing the top line of the company\".The vast majority of the Cadbury workforce would be unaffected by the change.UK Uncut's protests were prompted by reports that UK tax authorities had dropped a bid to recoup \u00a36bn in taxes from Vodafone, which are said to have stemmed from the firm allegedly using a Luxembourg offshoot. Vodafone has described the claims as \"urban myth\".Last month, the anti-poverty campaign group ActionAid accused the world's second biggest beer company, SABMiller, of avoiding millions of pounds in tax in India and Africa by routing profits through tax-haven subsidiaries. London-based SABMiller denied the allegations and said there were \"sound commercial reasons for the location of its subsidiaries\".", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Corporate governance", "Tax avoidance", "Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business"], "title": "Cadbury's secret Swiss move will cost UK exchequer millions in tax"},{"date": "2010-12-17T14:17:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Protesters against corporate tax avoidance plan to target Vodafone and Top Shop outlets in more than 50 towns and cities around Britain tomorrow in the biggest day of action by the UK Uncut group so far.The action, on traditionally the busiest pre-Christmas high street shopping day, will also be aimed at other stores \u2013 but the main focus will be Vodafone and outlets run by Sir Philip Green's Arcadia group.The protests are organised locally \u2013 UK Uncut is a loose alliance of activists with little formal structure \u2013 making it hard to gauge the scale of tomorrow's events, but the group's website has a list of more than 50 planned demonstrations around the country.Most are likely to involve sit-ins of the sort which forced several branches of Vodafone and Top Shop to close briefly a fortnight ago, among them the latter's flagship store on Oxford Circus in central London.However, the UK Uncut group in Brighton is promising a wider \"disruptive tour of Brighton's biggest tax-dodgers\" while the plan in Oxford is called the Monaco Tax Dodger Grand Prix \u2013 a reference to the tax haven residence of Green's wife, Tina, in whose name the bulk of the family business empire is registered.The biggest protest is again likely to be in London, where the group aims to emphasise what it says is the link between tax avoidance by corporations and rich individuals and the current round of government spending cuts.One contingent plans to hold a mock school sports day in the Oxford Circus Top Shop to protest against cuts to sports funding, while Vodafone's nearby flagship outlet will see a silent \"read-in\" to highlight cuts to libraries.Daniel Garvin, of UK Uncut, said the group was aware that high streets would be extremely busy. \"So far, members of the public have been very supportive, but we don't want to disrupt people too much,\" he said.\"The London protests will be limited to two hours, and we hope to keep shoppers informed about what's happening.\"UK Uncut \u2013 which has spread rapidly in a matter of months, mainly through social media such as Facebook and Twitter \u2013 claims a clampdown on corporate tax avoidance could bring the government an extra \u00a325bn a year, greatly reducing the need for spending cuts.Tax protesters claim Vodafone was let off an unpaid tax bill of \u00a36bn, a figure tax authorities described as \"an urban myth\".The focus on Top Shop is based around savings made by Tina Green's residency in Monaco, which enabled her to receive a \u00a31.2bn dividend in 2005 tax free. Her husband, who has been advising the government on efficiency savings, insists he pays a proper amount of UK tax.While corporate tax avoidance strategies are legal, UK Uncut argues that they are immoral in such financially straitened times.Interviewed by BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning, Murray Williams, a UK Uncut spokesman, said: \"What we're saying, and what people up and down the country are saying, is that that's now socially unacceptable.\"In a time when we're being told that we're all in this together and when we've all got to accept these harsh cuts to housing benefit and the NHS and take a hike in VAT ... trying to claim that these companies then don't have to pay their fair share of that too \u2013 I just don't think that's on.\"Asked whether the group would be better off putting pressure on the government to change the rules on tax, he said: \"I think this is targeting the government.\"Just because we're sat in front of a Top Shop store or in front of a Vodafone store doesn't mean this isn't putting pressure on the government.\"It's making this a big issue. It's highlighting the problem in our tax system that the super-rich often pay proportionally less tax than the poorest people in society, which surely cannot be fair at a time of these massive austerity cuts.\"Vodafone refused to say whether it was taking any measures to secure its stores against the protests, while Arcadia had no immediate comment.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Tax avoidance", "Protest", "UK news", "Business", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax protesters to target Vodafone and Top Shop"},{"date": "2010-12-14T13:59:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": " In a study published last month, France's Demographic Studies Institute (Ined) lists countries that have the largest number of migrants in absolute or relative terms, and also where the millions of migrants come from.Although a large number leave their homes in the developing world in search of work in industrialised countries, there is still significant movement between emerging economies, and from one part of the developed world to another.Of the 214 million people living outside their home country (just over 3% of the world's population, according to a UN estimate published this year), 62 million left a country in the south for a destination in the north. Migration between countries in the south involved 61 million people, against 53 million in the north.With 43 million foreign nationals on American territory in 2010, according to UN forecasts, the US remains the world's prime destination for immigration, well ahead of Russia, with 12.3\u00a0million immigrants. In all, some 13% of the population were born outside the US. For the last five years its \"migratory balance\" \u2013 the difference between the number of people entering and leaving the country \u2013 is estimated at 1 million a year.In most other industrialised western democracies the proportion of immigrants ranges from 7% to 16%, according to Ined. This category includes Germany (13%), France (11%), the UK and the Netherlands (10%), and Belgium (9%). Spain is a relative newcomer, having only become a big destination for immigration in the past 20 years, with a peak in 2002-07. Immigrants now account for 14% of the population.But in terms of the share of the total population these countries have fallen far behind the Gulf states, where immigrants sometimes outnumber the natives, as in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Europe has also been overtaken by Australia and Canada, where 21% of the population are immigrants.Lastly, the proportion of immigrants is particularly high in countries with an attractive tax system, such as Monaco (72%), Singapore (41%), or to a lesser extent Luxembourg (35%) and Switzerland (23%).So where do the migrants come from? The answers here are less precise, \"arrivals being more accurately registered than departures\". Mexico ranks as the top source country (10\u00a0million migrants) with many of its citizens resident in the US. India is close behind (9 million), followed by Bangladesh (6.5 million).But as a percentage of total population the smaller countries rank highly for emigration. A third of the population of the Cape Verde islands live abroad. The same is true of Bosnia, with almost as many (27%) having left Albania. The UK stands out: in 2000, it had almost as many emigrants (4.2\u00a0million) as immigrants (4.9 million). In contrast, France is one of the countries with the smallest number of expatriates.Finally a word of caution: the national perspective underpinning the Ined study fails to reveal the full picture regarding migration. For example, proportionally only a very few Chinese move abroad (0.1%), but huge numbers of people have migrated from one province to another in recent years.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["US immigration", "United Nations", "Population", "Immigration and asylum"], "title": "US is still the world's leading destination for immigrants"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-12-03T23:43:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The new US owners of Cadbury's chocolate are working on a secret plan to shift key parts of the 186-year-old British business to Switzerland in a move likely to deprive the UK exchequer of millions of pounds of tax.Kraft, which took control of Cadbury in an \u00a311bn takeover this year, intends to turn the firm into a subsidiary of a new Swiss company. The new structure would slash its bill for UK corporation tax. Last year, Cadbury handed over \u00a3200m to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.Kraft's plans, uncovered by the Guardian, are likely to fuel anger at the manoeuvres used by big corporations to avoid tax. A fast-growing group of activists, inspired by the UK Uncut group, plan to protest tomorrow in nine cities across the country against what they view as unfair tax avoidance by big companies on high streets.The activists insist a clampdown on tax avoidance would reduce the government's \u00a383bn of public spending cuts. The protests will target fashion stores such as Topshop, Burton and Miss Selfridge, all owned by Sir Philip Green. The billionaire made corporate history five years ago when his Arcadia retail empire paid a \u00a31.2bn dividend to his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco.Green, who has claimed his personal tax affairs are \"not relevant\", has recently advised the coalition on efficiency savings. Other companies targeted include Boots, Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC.Kraft uses a Swiss ownership structure for its existing UK business. A spokesman said it was \"integrating Cadbury into this model\". He said \"Switzerland is a tax efficient location\", but insisted the decision to change Cadbury's legal structure is \"about growing the top line of the company\".The vast majority of the Cadbury workforce would be unaffected by the change.UK Uncut's protests were prompted by reports that UK tax authorities had dropped a bid to recoup \u00a36bn in taxes from Vodafone, which are said to have stemmed from the firm allegedly using a Luxembourg offshoot. Vodafone has described the claims as \"urban myth\".Last month, the anti-poverty campaign group ActionAid accused the world's second biggest beer company, SABMiller, of avoiding millions of pounds in tax in India and Africa by routing profits through tax-haven subsidiaries. London-based SABMiller denied the allegations and said there were \"sound commercial reasons for the location of its subsidiaries\".", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Corporate governance", "Tax avoidance", "Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business"], "title": "Cadbury's secret Swiss move will cost UK exchequer millions in tax"},{"date": "2010-12-17T14:17:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Protesters against corporate tax avoidance plan to target Vodafone and Top Shop outlets in more than 50 towns and cities around Britain tomorrow in the biggest day of action by the UK Uncut group so far.The action, on traditionally the busiest pre-Christmas high street shopping day, will also be aimed at other stores \u2013 but the main focus will be Vodafone and outlets run by Sir Philip Green's Arcadia group.The protests are organised locally \u2013 UK Uncut is a loose alliance of activists with little formal structure \u2013 making it hard to gauge the scale of tomorrow's events, but the group's website has a list of more than 50 planned demonstrations around the country.Most are likely to involve sit-ins of the sort which forced several branches of Vodafone and Top Shop to close briefly a fortnight ago, among them the latter's flagship store on Oxford Circus in central London.However, the UK Uncut group in Brighton is promising a wider \"disruptive tour of Brighton's biggest tax-dodgers\" while the plan in Oxford is called the Monaco Tax Dodger Grand Prix \u2013 a reference to the tax haven residence of Green's wife, Tina, in whose name the bulk of the family business empire is registered.The biggest protest is again likely to be in London, where the group aims to emphasise what it says is the link between tax avoidance by corporations and rich individuals and the current round of government spending cuts.One contingent plans to hold a mock school sports day in the Oxford Circus Top Shop to protest against cuts to sports funding, while Vodafone's nearby flagship outlet will see a silent \"read-in\" to highlight cuts to libraries.Daniel Garvin, of UK Uncut, said the group was aware that high streets would be extremely busy. \"So far, members of the public have been very supportive, but we don't want to disrupt people too much,\" he said.\"The London protests will be limited to two hours, and we hope to keep shoppers informed about what's happening.\"UK Uncut \u2013 which has spread rapidly in a matter of months, mainly through social media such as Facebook and Twitter \u2013 claims a clampdown on corporate tax avoidance could bring the government an extra \u00a325bn a year, greatly reducing the need for spending cuts.Tax protesters claim Vodafone was let off an unpaid tax bill of \u00a36bn, a figure tax authorities described as \"an urban myth\".The focus on Top Shop is based around savings made by Tina Green's residency in Monaco, which enabled her to receive a \u00a31.2bn dividend in 2005 tax free. Her husband, who has been advising the government on efficiency savings, insists he pays a proper amount of UK tax.While corporate tax avoidance strategies are legal, UK Uncut argues that they are immoral in such financially straitened times.Interviewed by BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning, Murray Williams, a UK Uncut spokesman, said: \"What we're saying, and what people up and down the country are saying, is that that's now socially unacceptable.\"In a time when we're being told that we're all in this together and when we've all got to accept these harsh cuts to housing benefit and the NHS and take a hike in VAT ... trying to claim that these companies then don't have to pay their fair share of that too \u2013 I just don't think that's on.\"Asked whether the group would be better off putting pressure on the government to change the rules on tax, he said: \"I think this is targeting the government.\"Just because we're sat in front of a Top Shop store or in front of a Vodafone store doesn't mean this isn't putting pressure on the government.\"It's making this a big issue. It's highlighting the problem in our tax system that the super-rich often pay proportionally less tax than the poorest people in society, which surely cannot be fair at a time of these massive austerity cuts.\"Vodafone refused to say whether it was taking any measures to secure its stores against the protests, while Arcadia had no immediate comment.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Tax avoidance", "Protest", "UK news", "Business", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax protesters to target Vodafone and Top Shop"},{"date": "2010-12-14T13:59:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": " In a study published last month, France's Demographic Studies Institute (Ined) lists countries that have the largest number of migrants in absolute or relative terms, and also where the millions of migrants come from.Although a large number leave their homes in the developing world in search of work in industrialised countries, there is still significant movement between emerging economies, and from one part of the developed world to another.Of the 214 million people living outside their home country (just over 3% of the world's population, according to a UN estimate published this year), 62 million left a country in the south for a destination in the north. Migration between countries in the south involved 61 million people, against 53 million in the north.With 43 million foreign nationals on American territory in 2010, according to UN forecasts, the US remains the world's prime destination for immigration, well ahead of Russia, with 12.3\u00a0million immigrants. In all, some 13% of the population were born outside the US. For the last five years its \"migratory balance\" \u2013 the difference between the number of people entering and leaving the country \u2013 is estimated at 1 million a year.In most other industrialised western democracies the proportion of immigrants ranges from 7% to 16%, according to Ined. This category includes Germany (13%), France (11%), the UK and the Netherlands (10%), and Belgium (9%). Spain is a relative newcomer, having only become a big destination for immigration in the past 20 years, with a peak in 2002-07. Immigrants now account for 14% of the population.But in terms of the share of the total population these countries have fallen far behind the Gulf states, where immigrants sometimes outnumber the natives, as in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Europe has also been overtaken by Australia and Canada, where 21% of the population are immigrants.Lastly, the proportion of immigrants is particularly high in countries with an attractive tax system, such as Monaco (72%), Singapore (41%), or to a lesser extent Luxembourg (35%) and Switzerland (23%).So where do the migrants come from? The answers here are less precise, \"arrivals being more accurately registered than departures\". Mexico ranks as the top source country (10\u00a0million migrants) with many of its citizens resident in the US. India is close behind (9 million), followed by Bangladesh (6.5 million).But as a percentage of total population the smaller countries rank highly for emigration. A third of the population of the Cape Verde islands live abroad. The same is true of Bosnia, with almost as many (27%) having left Albania. The UK stands out: in 2000, it had almost as many emigrants (4.2\u00a0million) as immigrants (4.9 million). In contrast, France is one of the countries with the smallest number of expatriates.Finally a word of caution: the national perspective underpinning the Ined study fails to reveal the full picture regarding migration. For example, proportionally only a very few Chinese move abroad (0.1%), but huge numbers of people have migrated from one province to another in recent years.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["US immigration", "United Nations", "Population", "Immigration and asylum"], "title": "US is still the world's leading destination for immigrants"},{"date": "2010-12-13T00:05:09Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Quibble, if you must, with the tactics and the arguments of the protesters who besieged branches of Vodafone this weekend, and shut down the giant Topshop on London's Oxford Street last Saturday. But give the UK Uncut demonstrators credit for this: instead of taking cheap shots at David Cameron, they are making a tricky, worthwhile argument about tax.The reason protesters have gone after Topshop boss Sir Philip Green is because he advises the government on how better to spend its tax revenues, while arranging his affairs to avoid paying as much tax as he might. Five years ago, he banked a \u00a31.2bn dividend from the Arcadia group that owns Topshop and others \u2013 and the money went to his wife, who, handily enough, lives in Monaco. Nothing illegal in that, but equally a lot of ordinary taxpayers may ask why someone who goes in for such schemes should advise ministers on issues of how tax money is spent. Similarly, Vodafone has faced accusations from activists who claim it has strong-armed Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) into accepting a tax payment some \u00a36bn less than it is rightfully owed.Consider what these protests tell you about the argument over tax justice. Vodafone disputes protesters' claims, and yet its executives privately acknowledge that they do not expect the demonstrations to go away any time soon. A technical argument over how much a multinational should pay to the British taxman may now be affecting Vodafone's business (you try buying a BlackBerry during a store sit-in) and has worked its way into the political debate.Certainly, all this poses a direct challenge to the coalition. George Osborne has long calculated that the public would prefer eye-watering spending cuts over big rises in tax; which is why, in the coming fiscal consolidation, public spending will be reduced by \u00a34 for every \u00a31 put on tax. That political calculation may have appeared convincing six months ago; it looks less so now. Last week the government was jolted into bringing forward its plans for a general anti-avoidance principle, which could mean companies running their tax avoidance plans by HMRC before charging ahead.Whether right or left, politicians typically assume that businesses always hanker after lower taxes. Yet small firms often want the opposite things from multinationals, and the interests of the finance industry do not reflect all of British business. So much was proved yesterday when the new CBI boss, Roger Carr, gave his support to the 50p super income tax introduced by Labour. The full effects of the past few weeks' protests are not yet apparent; but it looks likely that they have at least put tax justice back on the Westminster agenda. Which is where it belongs.", "tags": ["Tax and spending", "George Osborne", "Politics", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news", "Topshop", "Life and style", "Tax", "Money", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax justice: Back on the agenda | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-11-04T11:46:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Among the many companies reporting results today, Cable & Wireless Communications stands out with an 8% fall in its shares following its figures.The company - spun out of the Cable & Wireless group earlier this year - has lost 4.45p to 49.6p despite reporting results more or less in line with expectations. Revenues rose by 2% to $1.159bn and earnings climbed 4% to $424m, helped by a strong performance in Macau and Monaco & Islands. There was no news on any plans to take a controlling stake in the Bahaman business BTC, the subject of recent speculation.Analysts said the real concern was that the company did not seem to be generating enough cash to be able to cover its dividend payments. It announced an interim dividend of 2.67 cents with the intention of a full year payout of 8 cents. Jonathan Jackson at Killik & Co said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications falls 8% on dividend concerns"},{"date": "2010-12-05T00:07:38Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Campaigners took over Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store yesterday, forcing it to close its doors on one of the busiest trading days of the year, as sit-ins and protests were staged across Britain against tax avoidance by rich individuals and big businesses.The Arcadia retail group tycoon and businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if alleged tax dodging were stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse.In Brighton, protesters superglued themselves to Topshop's window, while security guards in Oxford Street bundled reporters and protesters out of the store before around 70 to 80 demonstrators, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on to Arcadia's BHS store, which also had to be closed to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop.Green, recently made an adviser on public spending by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, his firm's direct owner, lives in Monaco, a tax haven.Amid growing disquiet over spending cuts, the latest protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of \"UK Uncut\" \u2013 a new movement that is gathering support via social networking sites.One protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"We know Topshop owes the government tax. Together with companies like Vodafone, big businesses owe \u00a3126bn. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop .\"Eileen Smith, 78, said. \"I support anyone who is fighting hese terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"Her friend Mary, 64, agreed: \"And don't let anyone say this protest is hijacked by anarchists. If anything, it's hijacked by pensioners!\"UK Uncut held similar protests in October after Vodafone settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but paid a lot less than expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making.\"", "tags": ["Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business", "Budget deficit", "Retail industry", "Protest", "Public sector cuts", "Spending review 2010", "Topshop", "UK news"], "title": "Anti-cuts protesters force Topshop to close its flagship store"},{"date": "2010-12-03T23:43:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The new US owners of Cadbury's chocolate are working on a secret plan to shift key parts of the 186-year-old British business to Switzerland in a move likely to deprive the UK exchequer of millions of pounds of tax.Kraft, which took control of Cadbury in an \u00a311bn takeover this year, intends to turn the firm into a subsidiary of a new Swiss company. The new structure would slash its bill for UK corporation tax. Last year, Cadbury handed over \u00a3200m to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.Kraft's plans, uncovered by the Guardian, are likely to fuel anger at the manoeuvres used by big corporations to avoid tax. A fast-growing group of activists, inspired by the UK Uncut group, plan to protest tomorrow in nine cities across the country against what they view as unfair tax avoidance by big companies on high streets.The activists insist a clampdown on tax avoidance would reduce the government's \u00a383bn of public spending cuts. The protests will target fashion stores such as Topshop, Burton and Miss Selfridge, all owned by Sir Philip Green. The billionaire made corporate history five years ago when his Arcadia retail empire paid a \u00a31.2bn dividend to his wife, Tina, who lives in Monaco.Green, who has claimed his personal tax affairs are \"not relevant\", has recently advised the coalition on efficiency savings. Other companies targeted include Boots, Barclays, Lloyds and HSBC.Kraft uses a Swiss ownership structure for its existing UK business. A spokesman said it was \"integrating Cadbury into this model\". He said \"Switzerland is a tax efficient location\", but insisted the decision to change Cadbury's legal structure is \"about growing the top line of the company\".The vast majority of the Cadbury workforce would be unaffected by the change.UK Uncut's protests were prompted by reports that UK tax authorities had dropped a bid to recoup \u00a36bn in taxes from Vodafone, which are said to have stemmed from the firm allegedly using a Luxembourg offshoot. Vodafone has described the claims as \"urban myth\".Last month, the anti-poverty campaign group ActionAid accused the world's second biggest beer company, SABMiller, of avoiding millions of pounds in tax in India and Africa by routing profits through tax-haven subsidiaries. London-based SABMiller denied the allegations and said there were \"sound commercial reasons for the location of its subsidiaries\".", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Corporate governance", "Tax avoidance", "Sir Philip Green", "Vodafone", "Business"], "title": "Cadbury's secret Swiss move will cost UK exchequer millions in tax"},{"date": "2010-12-17T14:17:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Protesters against corporate tax avoidance plan to target Vodafone and Top Shop outlets in more than 50 towns and cities around Britain tomorrow in the biggest day of action by the UK Uncut group so far.The action, on traditionally the busiest pre-Christmas high street shopping day, will also be aimed at other stores \u2013 but the main focus will be Vodafone and outlets run by Sir Philip Green's Arcadia group.The protests are organised locally \u2013 UK Uncut is a loose alliance of activists with little formal structure \u2013 making it hard to gauge the scale of tomorrow's events, but the group's website has a list of more than 50 planned demonstrations around the country.Most are likely to involve sit-ins of the sort which forced several branches of Vodafone and Top Shop to close briefly a fortnight ago, among them the latter's flagship store on Oxford Circus in central London.However, the UK Uncut group in Brighton is promising a wider \"disruptive tour of Brighton's biggest tax-dodgers\" while the plan in Oxford is called the Monaco Tax Dodger Grand Prix \u2013 a reference to the tax haven residence of Green's wife, Tina, in whose name the bulk of the family business empire is registered.The biggest protest is again likely to be in London, where the group aims to emphasise what it says is the link between tax avoidance by corporations and rich individuals and the current round of government spending cuts.One contingent plans to hold a mock school sports day in the Oxford Circus Top Shop to protest against cuts to sports funding, while Vodafone's nearby flagship outlet will see a silent \"read-in\" to highlight cuts to libraries.Daniel Garvin, of UK Uncut, said the group was aware that high streets would be extremely busy. \"So far, members of the public have been very supportive, but we don't want to disrupt people too much,\" he said.\"The London protests will be limited to two hours, and we hope to keep shoppers informed about what's happening.\"UK Uncut \u2013 which has spread rapidly in a matter of months, mainly through social media such as Facebook and Twitter \u2013 claims a clampdown on corporate tax avoidance could bring the government an extra \u00a325bn a year, greatly reducing the need for spending cuts.Tax protesters claim Vodafone was let off an unpaid tax bill of \u00a36bn, a figure tax authorities described as \"an urban myth\".The focus on Top Shop is based around savings made by Tina Green's residency in Monaco, which enabled her to receive a \u00a31.2bn dividend in 2005 tax free. Her husband, who has been advising the government on efficiency savings, insists he pays a proper amount of UK tax.While corporate tax avoidance strategies are legal, UK Uncut argues that they are immoral in such financially straitened times.Interviewed by BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning, Murray Williams, a UK Uncut spokesman, said: \"What we're saying, and what people up and down the country are saying, is that that's now socially unacceptable.\"In a time when we're being told that we're all in this together and when we've all got to accept these harsh cuts to housing benefit and the NHS and take a hike in VAT ... trying to claim that these companies then don't have to pay their fair share of that too \u2013 I just don't think that's on.\"Asked whether the group would be better off putting pressure on the government to change the rules on tax, he said: \"I think this is targeting the government.\"Just because we're sat in front of a Top Shop store or in front of a Vodafone store doesn't mean this isn't putting pressure on the government.\"It's making this a big issue. It's highlighting the problem in our tax system that the super-rich often pay proportionally less tax than the poorest people in society, which surely cannot be fair at a time of these massive austerity cuts.\"Vodafone refused to say whether it was taking any measures to secure its stores against the protests, while Arcadia had no immediate comment.", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Tax avoidance", "Protest", "UK news", "Business", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax protesters to target Vodafone and Top Shop"},{"date": "2010-12-14T13:59:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": " In a study published last month, France's Demographic Studies Institute (Ined) lists countries that have the largest number of migrants in absolute or relative terms, and also where the millions of migrants come from.Although a large number leave their homes in the developing world in search of work in industrialised countries, there is still significant movement between emerging economies, and from one part of the developed world to another.Of the 214 million people living outside their home country (just over 3% of the world's population, according to a UN estimate published this year), 62 million left a country in the south for a destination in the north. Migration between countries in the south involved 61 million people, against 53 million in the north.With 43 million foreign nationals on American territory in 2010, according to UN forecasts, the US remains the world's prime destination for immigration, well ahead of Russia, with 12.3\u00a0million immigrants. In all, some 13% of the population were born outside the US. For the last five years its \"migratory balance\" \u2013 the difference between the number of people entering and leaving the country \u2013 is estimated at 1 million a year.In most other industrialised western democracies the proportion of immigrants ranges from 7% to 16%, according to Ined. This category includes Germany (13%), France (11%), the UK and the Netherlands (10%), and Belgium (9%). Spain is a relative newcomer, having only become a big destination for immigration in the past 20 years, with a peak in 2002-07. Immigrants now account for 14% of the population.But in terms of the share of the total population these countries have fallen far behind the Gulf states, where immigrants sometimes outnumber the natives, as in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Europe has also been overtaken by Australia and Canada, where 21% of the population are immigrants.Lastly, the proportion of immigrants is particularly high in countries with an attractive tax system, such as Monaco (72%), Singapore (41%), or to a lesser extent Luxembourg (35%) and Switzerland (23%).So where do the migrants come from? The answers here are less precise, \"arrivals being more accurately registered than departures\". Mexico ranks as the top source country (10\u00a0million migrants) with many of its citizens resident in the US. India is close behind (9 million), followed by Bangladesh (6.5 million).But as a percentage of total population the smaller countries rank highly for emigration. A third of the population of the Cape Verde islands live abroad. The same is true of Bosnia, with almost as many (27%) having left Albania. The UK stands out: in 2000, it had almost as many emigrants (4.2\u00a0million) as immigrants (4.9 million). In contrast, France is one of the countries with the smallest number of expatriates.Finally a word of caution: the national perspective underpinning the Ined study fails to reveal the full picture regarding migration. For example, proportionally only a very few Chinese move abroad (0.1%), but huge numbers of people have migrated from one province to another in recent years.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["US immigration", "United Nations", "Population", "Immigration and asylum"], "title": "US is still the world's leading destination for immigrants"},{"date": "2010-12-13T00:05:09Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Quibble, if you must, with the tactics and the arguments of the protesters who besieged branches of Vodafone this weekend, and shut down the giant Topshop on London's Oxford Street last Saturday. But give the UK Uncut demonstrators credit for this: instead of taking cheap shots at David Cameron, they are making a tricky, worthwhile argument about tax.The reason protesters have gone after Topshop boss Sir Philip Green is because he advises the government on how better to spend its tax revenues, while arranging his affairs to avoid paying as much tax as he might. Five years ago, he banked a \u00a31.2bn dividend from the Arcadia group that owns Topshop and others \u2013 and the money went to his wife, who, handily enough, lives in Monaco. Nothing illegal in that, but equally a lot of ordinary taxpayers may ask why someone who goes in for such schemes should advise ministers on issues of how tax money is spent. Similarly, Vodafone has faced accusations from activists who claim it has strong-armed Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) into accepting a tax payment some \u00a36bn less than it is rightfully owed.Consider what these protests tell you about the argument over tax justice. Vodafone disputes protesters' claims, and yet its executives privately acknowledge that they do not expect the demonstrations to go away any time soon. A technical argument over how much a multinational should pay to the British taxman may now be affecting Vodafone's business (you try buying a BlackBerry during a store sit-in) and has worked its way into the political debate.Certainly, all this poses a direct challenge to the coalition. George Osborne has long calculated that the public would prefer eye-watering spending cuts over big rises in tax; which is why, in the coming fiscal consolidation, public spending will be reduced by \u00a34 for every \u00a31 put on tax. That political calculation may have appeared convincing six months ago; it looks less so now. Last week the government was jolted into bringing forward its plans for a general anti-avoidance principle, which could mean companies running their tax avoidance plans by HMRC before charging ahead.Whether right or left, politicians typically assume that businesses always hanker after lower taxes. Yet small firms often want the opposite things from multinationals, and the interests of the finance industry do not reflect all of British business. So much was proved yesterday when the new CBI boss, Roger Carr, gave his support to the 50p super income tax introduced by Labour. The full effects of the past few weeks' protests are not yet apparent; but it looks likely that they have at least put tax justice back on the Westminster agenda. Which is where it belongs.", "tags": ["Tax and spending", "George Osborne", "Politics", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news", "Topshop", "Life and style", "Tax", "Money", "UK Uncut"], "title": "Tax justice: Back on the agenda | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-04T15:13:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "With superglue and megaphones, pop-up protests forced several branches of Topshop and Vodafone around the country to close today on one of the busiest trading days of the year.Campaigners staged a sit-in at Sir Philip Green's flagship London Topshop store, and in Brighton a few glued themselves to the branch windows, while other high streets in towns and cities across Britain saw similar protests in a day of action against the tax arrangements of rich individuals and big businesses.Green, the Arcadia retail group tycoon, and other wealthy individuals and big businesses including Vodafone, Barclays and Boots are the focus of rising anger over the programme of government cuts that campaigners say could be avoided if tax dodging was stamped out, bringing in some \u00a325bn a year to the public purse and making a sizeable dent in the national debt.Security guards in Oxford Street bundled protesters and journalists, including Guardian columnist Polly Toynbee, out of the London store before the group of about 70 to 80 protestors, chanting \"Philip Green pay your tax\", left voluntarily and moved on the Arcadia's BhS store, which also had to be closed briefly to shoppers, as did a Vodafone shop. The demonstrations remained good-natured and peaceful with many of those out shopping fairly sympathetic.The billionaire Green, recently made an adviser on cuts by David Cameron, is under fire because his wife, Arcadia's direct owner, lives in the tax haven of Monaco.The latest tax avoidance protests took place in Birmingham, Glasgow, York, Bristol, Manchester and Nottingham, under the banner of UK Uncut \u2013 a fast-growing movement that is gathering support via social networking sitesOne protester, Ed Greens, 20, from north-west London, said: \"Topshop ... together with companies like Vodafone owe billions. We are taking direct action on companies like Topshop which avoid large amounts of tax.\"Eileen Smith, 78, had come along to join the protesters. \"I support anyone who is fighting against these terrible cuts. How dare this government say we are all in this together when 24 members of the cabinet are millionaires and men like Philip Green and his cronies are feted. The hypocrisy is sickening.\"The group held similar protests against Vodafone in October after the telecoms group settled a large tax avoidance claim with the government but ended up paying a lot less than had been expected.James Kelly, a spokesman for UK Uncut said: \"Tax avoidance is a big issue and we believe this is the alternative to the cuts the government are making. Philip Green is a well-known tax avoider and today we're bringing our campaign right to the heart of his empire.\"Richard Murphy, director of Tax Research UK, said he thought that UK Uncut's actions were justified. \"I do think that what they're doing is appropriate, I do think there's a problem. Large businesses are paying a smaller proportion of their income in tax than many individuals and small businesses in the UK and that's unacceptable.\"Public and Commercial Services union general secretary Mark Serwotka said: \"People are rightly angry that the government is targeting the most vulnerable in our society with massive cuts in spending, and yet it appears to be very relaxed about rich and powerful tax dodgers.\"", "tags": ["Tax and spending", "UK news", "Protest", "Politics", "Vodafone", "Business", "UK Uncut"], "title": "UK Uncut targets Topshop and Vodafone over tax arrangements"},{"date": "2011-01-12T20:00:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Money can't buy you taste. This universal law is amply confirmed by the news that a \u00a3700m \"hyper yacht\" called the Streets of Monaco is on the drawing board of Derby-based ship designers Yacht Island Design. Whether it will ever get off that drawing board and into the sea is yet to be decided.Aimed at the billionaire who, unable to get enough of being moored off the real Monaco, needs to sleep aboard a mock one, the 155-metre yacht offers all a bored tax exile could ever need.The mock facades of Monaco's landmark buildings \"reflect the style and sophistication of the principality\", according to the designer. Once you're done with the swimming pools and tennis courts \u2013 yes, that's plural \u2013 you could admire the mini waterfall or sit in the cafe with its underwater views. Or perhaps rest in your three-floor, 4,800sq ft apartment before enjoying the main deck's go-kart track \u2013 with tunnels \u2013 inspired by the Monaco grand prix circuit.\"We do see a lot of concepts for super-yachts being floated, but not all of them get built,\" says Andrew Johansson of SuperyachtDesign magazine. \"This borders on the extreme, although we did see a design for a flying super-yacht last year, which surely will never get built. Streets of Monaco is a cool idea, though. The designers have done their homework.\"Johansson won't comment on how many of these yachts actually get commissioned \u2013 or who buys them beyond, that is, a certain football-loving Russian billionaire who is now on to his fifth yacht (and who, allegedly, lost one in a poker game) \u2013 but he says an even larger model is nearing completion. \"It's nearly 200 metres in length, but we'd probably call it a vessel, not a super-yacht.\"And what marks out a \"super yacht\"? \"They are typically 80-100 metres, but the super-yacht classification usually means anything longer than 30 metres.\" So, small enough to fit into the Streets of Monaco's master bedroom.And next up on the drawing board: \"An 85-metre yacht, based around a Pacific Island theme.\"\u2022 Up to 16 guests can \"stay\" at the Monte Carlo Casino, Hotel de Paris, Cafe de Paris, La Rascasse or the Loews Hotel.\u2022 The 70-strong crew sleep below deck.\u2022 Fill her up here. Estimated running costs? \"Tens of millions\" each year. Top speed: 15 knots.\u2022 Go-cart track. Celebratory champagne spraying encouraged.\u2022 \"Casino Square\" features a fountain \"in a tranquil garden setting\".\u2022 Lower levels feature a \"spa with manicure and hair salon, sauna/steam rooms and a relaxation lounge with pool and bar\".\u2022 Private submarine can be \"deployed from one of the submerged hulls\".", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe"], "title": "The boat that mistook itself for Monaco"},{"date": "2011-01-12T20:00:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Money can't buy you taste. This universal law is amply confirmed by the news that a \u00a3700m \"hyper yacht\" called the Streets of Monaco is on the drawing board of Derby-based ship designers Yacht Island Design. Whether it will ever get off that drawing board and into the sea is yet to be decided.Aimed at the billionaire who, unable to get enough of being moored off the real Monaco, needs to sleep aboard a mock one, the 155-metre yacht offers all a bored tax exile could ever need.The mock facades of Monaco's landmark buildings \"reflect the style and sophistication of the principality\", according to the designer. Once you're done with the swimming pools and tennis courts \u2013 yes, that's plural \u2013 you could admire the mini waterfall or sit in the cafe with its underwater views. Or perhaps rest in your three-floor, 4,800sq ft apartment before enjoying the main deck's go-kart track \u2013 with tunnels \u2013 inspired by the Monaco grand prix circuit.\"We do see a lot of concepts for super-yachts being floated, but not all of them get built,\" says Andrew Johansson of SuperyachtDesign magazine. \"This borders on the extreme, although we did see a design for a flying super-yacht last year, which surely will never get built. Streets of Monaco is a cool idea, though. The designers have done their homework.\"Johansson won't comment on how many of these yachts actually get commissioned \u2013 or who buys them beyond, that is, a certain football-loving Russian billionaire who is now on to his fifth yacht (and who, allegedly, lost one in a poker game) \u2013 but he says an even larger model is nearing completion. \"It's nearly 200 metres in length, but we'd probably call it a vessel, not a super-yacht.\"And what marks out a \"super yacht\"? \"They are typically 80-100 metres, but the super-yacht classification usually means anything longer than 30 metres.\" So, small enough to fit into the Streets of Monaco's master bedroom.And next up on the drawing board: \"An 85-metre yacht, based around a Pacific Island theme.\"\u2022 Up to 16 guests can \"stay\" at the Monte Carlo Casino, Hotel de Paris, Cafe de Paris, La Rascasse or the Loews Hotel.\u2022 The 70-strong crew sleep below deck.\u2022 Fill her up here. Estimated running costs? \"Tens of millions\" each year. Top speed: 15 knots.\u2022 Go-cart track. Celebratory champagne spraying encouraged.\u2022 \"Casino Square\" features a fountain \"in a tranquil garden setting\".\u2022 Lower levels feature a \"spa with manicure and hair salon, sauna/steam rooms and a relaxation lounge with pool and bar\".\u2022 Private submarine can be \"deployed from one of the submerged hulls\".", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe"], "title": "The boat that mistook itself for Monaco"},{"date": "2011-01-24T10:51:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Tasked with recalling a list of high-profile affairs involving a public figure and his or her bodyguard, the instances don't exactly come thick and fast as today's Daily Express proves. Topically, there's Alan Johnson and his wife, and princess St\u00e9phanie of Monaco if we're really scraping the barrel. But who best to illustrate the \"risky attraction between protectors and clients\"? Why, Whitney Houston and Kevin Costner in the 90s smash The Bodyguard, of course. If fact fails you, go fiction.", "tags": ["Media", "Daily Express", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Express Newspapers"], "title": "Express goes to Houston for affairs of the heart | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2011-06-26T14:38:16Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "He is the prince who never grew up \u2013 a one-time playboy and son of the Hollywood star Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier of Monaco. She is a working-class South African 20 years his junior, a former Olympic swimmer and the daughter of a photocopier salesman.When Prince Albert of Monaco and Charlene Wittstock marry this week in a two-day populist extravaganza in the wealthy Mediterranean enclave, tens of thousands of tourists are expected to flood in to witness the ultimate \"prince and commoner\" wedding.The American rockers the Eagles will belt out Hotel California in a special gig for locals while synth-pop guru Jean-Michel Jarre performs a light show over the port. Albert II, head of the tiny principality since his father died in 2005, will flaunt his eco credentials by staging the procession of the newlyweds in an open-top electric Lexus.But the wedding is more than just the latest soap opera instalment of the House of Grimaldi, a dynasty as famous for its heartache as its glamour. It is vital for the survival of the Mediterranean tax haven. Monaco, the world's smallest state after the Vatican, has 360,000 registered bank accounts and a 35,000 population \u2013 the vast majority of whom are foreign expats, many British, paying no income or capital gains tax. If Somerset Maugham once famously called Monaco \"a sunny place for shady people\", Prince Albert declared when he took over that \"morality, honesty and ethics\" would guide his rule. In 2009, Monaco was removed from the OECD blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, after promising to be more transparent with foreign authorities asking questions. But it continues to exempt its rich foreign residents from paying tax, and its own vast wealth depends on the international fortunes that take residency there.The Grimaldis, who have run the enclave for seven centuries, are the protectors of Monaco's special status. \"It's a question of life and death,\" said Francois Caviglioli, who has covered the principality for decades for Nouvel Observateur. \"If there was no prince, and therefore no heir, Monaco would return to France. The stability of the prince's family is crucial for Monaco's numerous banks and its financial sector which craves security, not social unrest. Then there's the image factor and tourism: lots of Europeans deprived of their own monarchies descend on Monaco to see what it's all about.\"Many hope the wedding will be a boost after Monaco's gloomy start to the year. The enclave's top football team, which depends on Grimaldi money, was last month humiliatingly relegated to France's League 2; the financial crisis has sobered the mood and even the famous roulette and baccarat tables of the Casino Monte-Carlo fell silent over Easter as croupiers went on strike over pay.Whether Wittstock can return Monaco to its golden era when the American star and Hitchcock muse Grace Kelly became crown princess remains to be seen. Prince Albert first spotted her when she was 22 and competing in a Monaco swimming competition. The prince, a former member of Monaco's Olympic bobsleigh team, said they bonded over sport. When injury ended her swimming career she moved to Monaco five years ago. She is famously nervous about manners and how to dress and talk, and has been taking French lessons although she is not yet fluent. She has won a reputation as a fashion symbol.The couple, aged 53 and 33, now face two challenges: producing an heir and avoiding the personal trauma and tragedy that has plagued the Grimaldis. Albert has acknowledged two illegitimate children: a daughter with an American tourist and a son with a Togolese flight attendant. A change in the constitution allows the ruling prince's title to pass through the female line, but a male heir is still sought after in the deeply traditional, Catholic enclave. Albert has insisted he knows nothing of a supposed curse on family marriages, but Kelly died in 1982 in a car crash on one of Monaco's hairpin bends, his sister Caroline lost her second husband in a speed-boat crash and his youngest sister, Stephanie, is famous for an anguished love life, marrying and divorcing her bodyguard before marrying and divorcing a trapeze artist.Wittstock, with her trademark Grace Kelly-style blonde chignon, has rejected the obvious physical comparisons with her husband's late mother. Alain Perceval, author of a new book on the Monaco couple, says she should not be compared to Kate Middleton either. \"Charlene comes from a very humble background in South Africa, a bit rustic, she's from an ordinary family and had a very humble life,\" he said. \"You simply can't compare her to Kate Middleton, who went to prestigious schools and comes from what we would call the haute bourgeoisie.\"", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Prince Albert of Monaco and Charlene Wittstock prepare for wedding"},{"date": "2011-07-05T11:01:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The bride was young and blonde and wore Armani; the groom was a billionaire \"reformed playboy\" prince. The royal wedding in Monaco seemed certain to be a glittering state occasion that would refresh faith in the Grimaldi family, a clan that has sometimes seemed better at scandal than leadership.The gowns were pressed, the flowers were readied and the classic American band was all set to rock. But happy weddings do also require willing brides. So when the French press published allegations that princess-to-be Charlene Wittstock had attempted to flee Monaco three times before the wedding \u2013 finally stopped from going to her native South Africa, allegedly by officials who confiscated her passport \u2013 the apparent fairytale seemed to veer from its Cinderella narrative into Rapunzel territory.Denials of Wittstock's thwarted attempts at what some described as \"escape\" were issued by spokespeople for the Grimaldi family: they described the story as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" designed to undermine the monarchy. But in many of the photos of the occasion that have been released to the public, it's impossible not to note the sombre expressions on the faces of the couple, who \"looked painfully serious throughout the formalities\".Even if the allegations made by the press are found to be true there's no question that in many respects the glitzy nuptials were far removed from the kind of forced marriage that prompted the law banning it in Britain in 2008. But marrying into a super-rich family should not be regarded as a fair exchange for a woman being treated like chattel.If the allegations of her attempted flight are true, Wittstock would be far from the first woman to have had an urge to cancel her wedding plans. But without the future of a royal principality riding on our decision \u2013 if, as heir to the throne, Prince Albert doesn't have so-called legitimate heir himself, there's a possibility that the sovereignty of the principality will revert back to France \u2013 most of us have the agency to do so without being stopped by the government.But despite some differences in scale, we can sympathise with the supposed plight of the now-Princess Charlene. Our more mundane concerns can still cause us to make the wrong decisions when it comes to wedding plans that we've come to regret. Fear of the ire of a mother-in-law, of the embarrassment of returning gifts or the prospect of paying a catering bill for a wedding meal that no one will eat has driven many a reluctant bride or groom down the aisle into the arms of the person destined to become their future ex-husband or wife. Too often, the public performance of love in the form of a wedding becomes a juggernaut that overwhelms the actual relationship about which the love is being performed.Under the right circumstances, marriage can be very joyful. But under the wrong ones, it can be a trap: one in which no one deserves to be caught, no matter how rich, how poor or how frequently screen-printed on tea towels they are. Which is why it would be unconscionable for any state to interfere in any individual's freedom to choose whom they do marry \u2013 or don't.\u2022 If you have a subject you would like to see covered by Comment is free, please visit our You tell us page", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "Weddings", "World news"], "title": "Monaco and the wedding trap | Jean Hannah Edelstein"},{"date": "2011-07-05T11:01:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The bride was young and blonde and wore Armani; the groom was a billionaire \"reformed playboy\" prince. The royal wedding in Monaco seemed certain to be a glittering state occasion that would refresh faith in the Grimaldi family, a clan that has sometimes seemed better at scandal than leadership.The gowns were pressed, the flowers were readied and the classic American band was all set to rock. But happy weddings do also require willing brides. So when the French press published allegations that princess-to-be Charlene Wittstock had attempted to flee Monaco three times before the wedding \u2013 finally stopped from going to her native South Africa, allegedly by officials who confiscated her passport \u2013 the apparent fairytale seemed to veer from its Cinderella narrative into Rapunzel territory.Denials of Wittstock's thwarted attempts at what some described as \"escape\" were issued by spokespeople for the Grimaldi family: they described the story as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" designed to undermine the monarchy. But in many of the photos of the occasion that have been released to the public, it's impossible not to note the sombre expressions on the faces of the couple, who \"looked painfully serious throughout the formalities\".Even if the allegations made by the press are found to be true there's no question that in many respects the glitzy nuptials were far removed from the kind of forced marriage that prompted the law banning it in Britain in 2008. But marrying into a super-rich family should not be regarded as a fair exchange for a woman being treated like chattel.If the allegations of her attempted flight are true, Wittstock would be far from the first woman to have had an urge to cancel her wedding plans. But without the future of a royal principality riding on our decision \u2013 if, as heir to the throne, Prince Albert doesn't have so-called legitimate heir himself, there's a possibility that the sovereignty of the principality will revert back to France \u2013 most of us have the agency to do so without being stopped by the government.But despite some differences in scale, we can sympathise with the supposed plight of the now-Princess Charlene. Our more mundane concerns can still cause us to make the wrong decisions when it comes to wedding plans that we've come to regret. Fear of the ire of a mother-in-law, of the embarrassment of returning gifts or the prospect of paying a catering bill for a wedding meal that no one will eat has driven many a reluctant bride or groom down the aisle into the arms of the person destined to become their future ex-husband or wife. Too often, the public performance of love in the form of a wedding becomes a juggernaut that overwhelms the actual relationship about which the love is being performed.Under the right circumstances, marriage can be very joyful. But under the wrong ones, it can be a trap: one in which no one deserves to be caught, no matter how rich, how poor or how frequently screen-printed on tea towels they are. Which is why it would be unconscionable for any state to interfere in any individual's freedom to choose whom they do marry \u2013 or don't.\u2022 If you have a subject you would like to see covered by Comment is free, please visit our You tell us page", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "Weddings", "World news"], "title": "Monaco and the wedding trap | Jean Hannah Edelstein"},{"date": "2011-07-01T18:21:50Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "You wait decades for a fairytale royal wedding ... and then two come along at the same time.Just months after Britons turned out for the marriage of the Prince William and Catherine Middleton, the tiny principality of Monaco had its own happy ending when its ruler Prince Albert married former Olympic swimmer Charlene Wittstock on Friday.After days of would-she-wouldn't-she, sparked by reports the bride had a severe case of cold feet, you could have cut the atmosphere in the palace throne room with a bone-handled silver knife.When the couple walked into the lavish room lined with scarlet silk and damask \u2013 where Albert's parents Prince Rainier and Hollywood's Grace Kelly married 55 years ago \u2013 Charlene, wearing a Chanel sky-blue jacket and long dress, gave a weak smile. It did little to ease the tension. The groom's face looked as sombre as his black suit.Philippe Narmino, conducting the civil ceremony, spoke of the \"joy\" of celebrating the union, but some of those watching on big screens outside spoke of an atmosphere of sadness and an absence of signs of affection.As South African Charlene, 33, was asked, in French, if she would marry Albert Grimaldi, Princess Stephanie, the groom's younger sister, raised her eyes to the elaborately panelled ceiling depicting the history of Alexander the Great, as if invoking his help. Everyone held their breath.Charlene said \"oui\". Then Albert said \"oui\". Outside, the crowds burst into applause. Inside, Stephanie breathed out, relaxed her shoulders and burst into tears.Pronounced man and wife, the prince, 55, who had looked painfully serious throughout the formalities, winked at the new princess of Monaco.It may have been unkindly labelled the \"other wedding\", but the nuptials certainly lacked nothing in glitz, not to mention suspense and intrigue.\"We've waited a long time for this day,\" one local resident told French journalists. \"It's time there was some happiness here.\"The palace public relations machine was forced into overdrive earlier in the week to deny a report in the French magazine L'Express that Charlene had attempted to flee Monaco, the Mediterranean playground for the rich and famous.Officials described as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" claims that Wittstock had fled to nearby Nice airport with a one-way ticket back to South Africa.L'Express claimed she had discovered her husband-to-be's private life was \"not as exemplary as she had thought\". The palace said the reports were based on jealousy and aimed at spoiling a \"happy event\". The couple later appeared arm in arm in Monaco on the eve of the wedding.Later French press reports suggested she had wanted to call the wedding off amid claims that the prince, who has already admitted having two illegitimate children, had fathered a third child.The prince and Wittstock have been together for five years. They met when she took part in swimming championships in Monaco but did not strike up a relationship until several years later.More than 7,000 citizens were invited to post-ceremony cocktails on the square outside the palace, which was followed by a concert by the French composer Jean Michel Jarre.A religious ceremony will take place on Saturday with an official dinner and a fireworks display attended by about 40 heads of state including the kings of Spain, Sweden, Lesotho and Belgium, and the presidents of France, Iceland, Ireland, Lebanon, Malta, Germany and Hungary. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall are to represent Britain.Albert and Charlene were guests at the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton in April but Britain's newest royal couple could not attend as they are on an official visit to Canada.The wedding will be followed on Saturday night by a gala dinner by the multi-Michelin starred French chef Alain Ducasse.Charlene, who was born in Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, grew up in South Africa where her father runs a computer business. She is said to have felt isolated and homesick in Monaco and confessed a few months ago that she had made \"only two friends\" in the principality.The hotly denied rumours of her flight prompted French newspapers to revive the fabled curse of the Grimaldis, said to date back to 1297 when the first Grimaldi, Francesco the Spiteful, tricked the principality's defenders by disguising himself as a monk seeking sanctuary who then slaughtered them all. In 1982, Princess Grace was killed in a car crash. Her eldest daughter, Princess Caroline, also lost a husband in a motorboat accident.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Prince Albert of Monaco marries Charlene Wittstock"},{"date": "2011-07-05T11:01:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The bride was young and blonde and wore Armani; the groom was a billionaire \"reformed playboy\" prince. The royal wedding in Monaco seemed certain to be a glittering state occasion that would refresh faith in the Grimaldi family, a clan that has sometimes seemed better at scandal than leadership.The gowns were pressed, the flowers were readied and the classic American band was all set to rock. But happy weddings do also require willing brides. So when the French press published allegations that princess-to-be Charlene Wittstock had attempted to flee Monaco three times before the wedding \u2013 finally stopped from going to her native South Africa, allegedly by officials who confiscated her passport \u2013 the apparent fairytale seemed to veer from its Cinderella narrative into Rapunzel territory.Denials of Wittstock's thwarted attempts at what some described as \"escape\" were issued by spokespeople for the Grimaldi family: they described the story as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" designed to undermine the monarchy. But in many of the photos of the occasion that have been released to the public, it's impossible not to note the sombre expressions on the faces of the couple, who \"looked painfully serious throughout the formalities\".Even if the allegations made by the press are found to be true there's no question that in many respects the glitzy nuptials were far removed from the kind of forced marriage that prompted the law banning it in Britain in 2008. But marrying into a super-rich family should not be regarded as a fair exchange for a woman being treated like chattel.If the allegations of her attempted flight are true, Wittstock would be far from the first woman to have had an urge to cancel her wedding plans. But without the future of a royal principality riding on our decision \u2013 if, as heir to the throne, Prince Albert doesn't have so-called legitimate heir himself, there's a possibility that the sovereignty of the principality will revert back to France \u2013 most of us have the agency to do so without being stopped by the government.But despite some differences in scale, we can sympathise with the supposed plight of the now-Princess Charlene. Our more mundane concerns can still cause us to make the wrong decisions when it comes to wedding plans that we've come to regret. Fear of the ire of a mother-in-law, of the embarrassment of returning gifts or the prospect of paying a catering bill for a wedding meal that no one will eat has driven many a reluctant bride or groom down the aisle into the arms of the person destined to become their future ex-husband or wife. Too often, the public performance of love in the form of a wedding becomes a juggernaut that overwhelms the actual relationship about which the love is being performed.Under the right circumstances, marriage can be very joyful. But under the wrong ones, it can be a trap: one in which no one deserves to be caught, no matter how rich, how poor or how frequently screen-printed on tea towels they are. Which is why it would be unconscionable for any state to interfere in any individual's freedom to choose whom they do marry \u2013 or don't.\u2022 If you have a subject you would like to see covered by Comment is free, please visit our You tell us page", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "Weddings", "World news"], "title": "Monaco and the wedding trap | Jean Hannah Edelstein"},{"date": "2011-07-01T18:21:50Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "You wait decades for a fairytale royal wedding ... and then two come along at the same time.Just months after Britons turned out for the marriage of the Prince William and Catherine Middleton, the tiny principality of Monaco had its own happy ending when its ruler Prince Albert married former Olympic swimmer Charlene Wittstock on Friday.After days of would-she-wouldn't-she, sparked by reports the bride had a severe case of cold feet, you could have cut the atmosphere in the palace throne room with a bone-handled silver knife.When the couple walked into the lavish room lined with scarlet silk and damask \u2013 where Albert's parents Prince Rainier and Hollywood's Grace Kelly married 55 years ago \u2013 Charlene, wearing a Chanel sky-blue jacket and long dress, gave a weak smile. It did little to ease the tension. The groom's face looked as sombre as his black suit.Philippe Narmino, conducting the civil ceremony, spoke of the \"joy\" of celebrating the union, but some of those watching on big screens outside spoke of an atmosphere of sadness and an absence of signs of affection.As South African Charlene, 33, was asked, in French, if she would marry Albert Grimaldi, Princess Stephanie, the groom's younger sister, raised her eyes to the elaborately panelled ceiling depicting the history of Alexander the Great, as if invoking his help. Everyone held their breath.Charlene said \"oui\". Then Albert said \"oui\". Outside, the crowds burst into applause. Inside, Stephanie breathed out, relaxed her shoulders and burst into tears.Pronounced man and wife, the prince, 55, who had looked painfully serious throughout the formalities, winked at the new princess of Monaco.It may have been unkindly labelled the \"other wedding\", but the nuptials certainly lacked nothing in glitz, not to mention suspense and intrigue.\"We've waited a long time for this day,\" one local resident told French journalists. \"It's time there was some happiness here.\"The palace public relations machine was forced into overdrive earlier in the week to deny a report in the French magazine L'Express that Charlene had attempted to flee Monaco, the Mediterranean playground for the rich and famous.Officials described as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" claims that Wittstock had fled to nearby Nice airport with a one-way ticket back to South Africa.L'Express claimed she had discovered her husband-to-be's private life was \"not as exemplary as she had thought\". The palace said the reports were based on jealousy and aimed at spoiling a \"happy event\". The couple later appeared arm in arm in Monaco on the eve of the wedding.Later French press reports suggested she had wanted to call the wedding off amid claims that the prince, who has already admitted having two illegitimate children, had fathered a third child.The prince and Wittstock have been together for five years. They met when she took part in swimming championships in Monaco but did not strike up a relationship until several years later.More than 7,000 citizens were invited to post-ceremony cocktails on the square outside the palace, which was followed by a concert by the French composer Jean Michel Jarre.A religious ceremony will take place on Saturday with an official dinner and a fireworks display attended by about 40 heads of state including the kings of Spain, Sweden, Lesotho and Belgium, and the presidents of France, Iceland, Ireland, Lebanon, Malta, Germany and Hungary. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall are to represent Britain.Albert and Charlene were guests at the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton in April but Britain's newest royal couple could not attend as they are on an official visit to Canada.The wedding will be followed on Saturday night by a gala dinner by the multi-Michelin starred French chef Alain Ducasse.Charlene, who was born in Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, grew up in South Africa where her father runs a computer business. She is said to have felt isolated and homesick in Monaco and confessed a few months ago that she had made \"only two friends\" in the principality.The hotly denied rumours of her flight prompted French newspapers to revive the fabled curse of the Grimaldis, said to date back to 1297 when the first Grimaldi, Francesco the Spiteful, tricked the principality's defenders by disguising himself as a monk seeking sanctuary who then slaughtered them all. In 1982, Princess Grace was killed in a car crash. Her eldest daughter, Princess Caroline, also lost a husband in a motorboat accident.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Prince Albert of Monaco marries Charlene Wittstock"},{"date": "2011-07-19T13:03:26Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As this tiny kingdom \u2013 population 35,000, of which only 7,000 are Monegasque \u2013 attempts to kick-start the dream machine with its royal wedding, the principality's real asset, private banking, is in crisis.Outwardly nothing has changed: the diamond-clad women, the Rolls Royces and Maseratis in front of the Hotel de Paris, wild gambling in the casino and gleaming bank signs. However, looks are deceptive. In 2010 the assets of the 36 banks and 40 asset-management companies established here were worth a total \u20ac78bn ($110bn). That's a pittance, the equivalent of half the equity capital of an average Swiss bank. Having enjoyed a steady and secure income since the 1970s thanks to the arrival of rich Italians fleeing the Red Brigade, Monaco Inc's flagship industry is losing its momentum.Certainly, Monaco has always obsequiously welcomed the rich. For their part, the principality's foreign residents are mainly drawn by zero income tax, the promise of capital gains, the facilities and the housing. Monaco is a tax paradise.\"Today if you've got dirty money, Monaco is not the place to put it,\" insists Michel Roger, the state minister, Monaco's equivalent of prime minister, who is both Paris's eye on Monaco and Prince Albert's leading adviser. \"I don't see Monaco's future in receiving illicit funds. Rather, it lies in transparency and having a state of law.\" The banks in Monaco come under the prudential control of the Banque de France. They are strictly supervised by the Service d'Information et de Contr\u00f4le sur les Circuits Financiers (Siccfin), the national authority dealing with the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and corruption. Offshore companies are closely scrutinised and their property transactions are now taxed.More importantly, Monaco is no longer on the OECD's 2009 tax haven \"grey list\". To get itself off the list, the principality had to sign 24 agreements on the exchange of tax information, including with the US, Germany and France. Italy and the UK, whose nationals make up the largest contingent of foreign residents. \"I don't see Monaco staying away from the trend towards real international co-operation that's emerging globally,\" Roger said.However, the stated desire for transparency is not to the liking of the private banks specialising in tailor-made financing. Today banks in Monaco can no longer count on dubious funds from former Soviet bloc countries or \"politically exposed persons\" in French-speaking Africa to replace the assets of the wealthy Europeans who fell victim to the 2008-2009 financial crisis.Furthermore, Monaco-based banking subsidiaries are now obliged to set up an expensive administrative arsenal of controllers and compliance officers.With the crisis, the clientele has also become more demanding about yields. The simple and lucrative days of simply \"turning over\" portfolios are gone, and the more sophisticated clients wanting to invest offshore are demanding yields as well as absence of risk \u2013 squaring the circle.Real estate in Monaco is another problem, since the housing stock will never be sufficient to meet demand. Despite their penchant for the C\u00f4te d'Azur, Russian oligarchs and Arab sheiks deem three-room flats to be unworthy of their status. As a result, the former playground of the millionaire jet set, which once provided homes for the Onassis and Agnelli families, now has to make do with the merely wealthy instead of the super-rich.\"Property in Monaco is a unique market of foreign investors who pay cash. We have the highest housing prices per square metre in the world, ranging from \u20ac25,000 to \u20ac50,000 because of the chronic shortage of supply,\" said Michel Dotta, a major estate agent in the principality.Despite Prince Albert's internship with JP Morgan in New York after graduating from Amherst College in the US, he is not interested in banking, except for socially responsible investment products dealing with ecology and sustainable development. Yet financial institutions pay massive corporation tax, and despite having no debt and a \u20ac2bn strategic investment fund, Monaco has an operating deficit of between \u20ac70m and \u20ac80m per year.Aware of these budgetary constraints, the Monaco government has begun to modernise its financial laws, and make them a better fit for its Anglo-Saxon clientele. The government also wants to diversify the geographic origins of its non-residents by attracting banks from emerging countries. Recently a Lebanese bank and a well-known Indian one have set up subsidiaries. The new finance minister, Marco Piccinini, was Monaco's former ambassador to Beijing.In addition, the prince has given the green light to a joint venture between Monaco and the Qatar Sovereign Fund to set up a chain of luxury hotels-cum-casinos across Asia.Monaco's magic has to serve both legend and business.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Monaco", "Tax avoidance", "Money"], "title": "Modern Monaco puts responsibility ahead of capital gains"},{"date": "2011-07-05T11:01:55Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The bride was young and blonde and wore Armani; the groom was a billionaire \"reformed playboy\" prince. The royal wedding in Monaco seemed certain to be a glittering state occasion that would refresh faith in the Grimaldi family, a clan that has sometimes seemed better at scandal than leadership.The gowns were pressed, the flowers were readied and the classic American band was all set to rock. But happy weddings do also require willing brides. So when the French press published allegations that princess-to-be Charlene Wittstock had attempted to flee Monaco three times before the wedding \u2013 finally stopped from going to her native South Africa, allegedly by officials who confiscated her passport \u2013 the apparent fairytale seemed to veer from its Cinderella narrative into Rapunzel territory.Denials of Wittstock's thwarted attempts at what some described as \"escape\" were issued by spokespeople for the Grimaldi family: they described the story as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" designed to undermine the monarchy. But in many of the photos of the occasion that have been released to the public, it's impossible not to note the sombre expressions on the faces of the couple, who \"looked painfully serious throughout the formalities\".Even if the allegations made by the press are found to be true there's no question that in many respects the glitzy nuptials were far removed from the kind of forced marriage that prompted the law banning it in Britain in 2008. But marrying into a super-rich family should not be regarded as a fair exchange for a woman being treated like chattel.If the allegations of her attempted flight are true, Wittstock would be far from the first woman to have had an urge to cancel her wedding plans. But without the future of a royal principality riding on our decision \u2013 if, as heir to the throne, Prince Albert doesn't have so-called legitimate heir himself, there's a possibility that the sovereignty of the principality will revert back to France \u2013 most of us have the agency to do so without being stopped by the government.But despite some differences in scale, we can sympathise with the supposed plight of the now-Princess Charlene. Our more mundane concerns can still cause us to make the wrong decisions when it comes to wedding plans that we've come to regret. Fear of the ire of a mother-in-law, of the embarrassment of returning gifts or the prospect of paying a catering bill for a wedding meal that no one will eat has driven many a reluctant bride or groom down the aisle into the arms of the person destined to become their future ex-husband or wife. Too often, the public performance of love in the form of a wedding becomes a juggernaut that overwhelms the actual relationship about which the love is being performed.Under the right circumstances, marriage can be very joyful. But under the wrong ones, it can be a trap: one in which no one deserves to be caught, no matter how rich, how poor or how frequently screen-printed on tea towels they are. Which is why it would be unconscionable for any state to interfere in any individual's freedom to choose whom they do marry \u2013 or don't.\u2022 If you have a subject you would like to see covered by Comment is free, please visit our You tell us page", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "Weddings", "World news"], "title": "Monaco and the wedding trap | Jean Hannah Edelstein"},{"date": "2011-07-01T18:21:50Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "You wait decades for a fairytale royal wedding ... and then two come along at the same time.Just months after Britons turned out for the marriage of the Prince William and Catherine Middleton, the tiny principality of Monaco had its own happy ending when its ruler Prince Albert married former Olympic swimmer Charlene Wittstock on Friday.After days of would-she-wouldn't-she, sparked by reports the bride had a severe case of cold feet, you could have cut the atmosphere in the palace throne room with a bone-handled silver knife.When the couple walked into the lavish room lined with scarlet silk and damask \u2013 where Albert's parents Prince Rainier and Hollywood's Grace Kelly married 55 years ago \u2013 Charlene, wearing a Chanel sky-blue jacket and long dress, gave a weak smile. It did little to ease the tension. The groom's face looked as sombre as his black suit.Philippe Narmino, conducting the civil ceremony, spoke of the \"joy\" of celebrating the union, but some of those watching on big screens outside spoke of an atmosphere of sadness and an absence of signs of affection.As South African Charlene, 33, was asked, in French, if she would marry Albert Grimaldi, Princess Stephanie, the groom's younger sister, raised her eyes to the elaborately panelled ceiling depicting the history of Alexander the Great, as if invoking his help. Everyone held their breath.Charlene said \"oui\". Then Albert said \"oui\". Outside, the crowds burst into applause. Inside, Stephanie breathed out, relaxed her shoulders and burst into tears.Pronounced man and wife, the prince, 55, who had looked painfully serious throughout the formalities, winked at the new princess of Monaco.It may have been unkindly labelled the \"other wedding\", but the nuptials certainly lacked nothing in glitz, not to mention suspense and intrigue.\"We've waited a long time for this day,\" one local resident told French journalists. \"It's time there was some happiness here.\"The palace public relations machine was forced into overdrive earlier in the week to deny a report in the French magazine L'Express that Charlene had attempted to flee Monaco, the Mediterranean playground for the rich and famous.Officials described as \"ugly rumours\" and \"unfounded lies\" claims that Wittstock had fled to nearby Nice airport with a one-way ticket back to South Africa.L'Express claimed she had discovered her husband-to-be's private life was \"not as exemplary as she had thought\". The palace said the reports were based on jealousy and aimed at spoiling a \"happy event\". The couple later appeared arm in arm in Monaco on the eve of the wedding.Later French press reports suggested she had wanted to call the wedding off amid claims that the prince, who has already admitted having two illegitimate children, had fathered a third child.The prince and Wittstock have been together for five years. They met when she took part in swimming championships in Monaco but did not strike up a relationship until several years later.More than 7,000 citizens were invited to post-ceremony cocktails on the square outside the palace, which was followed by a concert by the French composer Jean Michel Jarre.A religious ceremony will take place on Saturday with an official dinner and a fireworks display attended by about 40 heads of state including the kings of Spain, Sweden, Lesotho and Belgium, and the presidents of France, Iceland, Ireland, Lebanon, Malta, Germany and Hungary. Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall are to represent Britain.Albert and Charlene were guests at the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton in April but Britain's newest royal couple could not attend as they are on an official visit to Canada.The wedding will be followed on Saturday night by a gala dinner by the multi-Michelin starred French chef Alain Ducasse.Charlene, who was born in Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, grew up in South Africa where her father runs a computer business. She is said to have felt isolated and homesick in Monaco and confessed a few months ago that she had made \"only two friends\" in the principality.The hotly denied rumours of her flight prompted French newspapers to revive the fabled curse of the Grimaldis, said to date back to 1297 when the first Grimaldi, Francesco the Spiteful, tricked the principality's defenders by disguising himself as a monk seeking sanctuary who then slaughtered them all. In 1982, Princess Grace was killed in a car crash. Her eldest daughter, Princess Caroline, also lost a husband in a motorboat accident.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Prince Albert of Monaco marries Charlene Wittstock"},{"date": "2011-07-19T13:03:26Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As this tiny kingdom \u2013 population 35,000, of which only 7,000 are Monegasque \u2013 attempts to kick-start the dream machine with its royal wedding, the principality's real asset, private banking, is in crisis.Outwardly nothing has changed: the diamond-clad women, the Rolls Royces and Maseratis in front of the Hotel de Paris, wild gambling in the casino and gleaming bank signs. However, looks are deceptive. In 2010 the assets of the 36 banks and 40 asset-management companies established here were worth a total \u20ac78bn ($110bn). That's a pittance, the equivalent of half the equity capital of an average Swiss bank. Having enjoyed a steady and secure income since the 1970s thanks to the arrival of rich Italians fleeing the Red Brigade, Monaco Inc's flagship industry is losing its momentum.Certainly, Monaco has always obsequiously welcomed the rich. For their part, the principality's foreign residents are mainly drawn by zero income tax, the promise of capital gains, the facilities and the housing. Monaco is a tax paradise.\"Today if you've got dirty money, Monaco is not the place to put it,\" insists Michel Roger, the state minister, Monaco's equivalent of prime minister, who is both Paris's eye on Monaco and Prince Albert's leading adviser. \"I don't see Monaco's future in receiving illicit funds. Rather, it lies in transparency and having a state of law.\" The banks in Monaco come under the prudential control of the Banque de France. They are strictly supervised by the Service d'Information et de Contr\u00f4le sur les Circuits Financiers (Siccfin), the national authority dealing with the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and corruption. Offshore companies are closely scrutinised and their property transactions are now taxed.More importantly, Monaco is no longer on the OECD's 2009 tax haven \"grey list\". To get itself off the list, the principality had to sign 24 agreements on the exchange of tax information, including with the US, Germany and France. Italy and the UK, whose nationals make up the largest contingent of foreign residents. \"I don't see Monaco staying away from the trend towards real international co-operation that's emerging globally,\" Roger said.However, the stated desire for transparency is not to the liking of the private banks specialising in tailor-made financing. Today banks in Monaco can no longer count on dubious funds from former Soviet bloc countries or \"politically exposed persons\" in French-speaking Africa to replace the assets of the wealthy Europeans who fell victim to the 2008-2009 financial crisis.Furthermore, Monaco-based banking subsidiaries are now obliged to set up an expensive administrative arsenal of controllers and compliance officers.With the crisis, the clientele has also become more demanding about yields. The simple and lucrative days of simply \"turning over\" portfolios are gone, and the more sophisticated clients wanting to invest offshore are demanding yields as well as absence of risk \u2013 squaring the circle.Real estate in Monaco is another problem, since the housing stock will never be sufficient to meet demand. Despite their penchant for the C\u00f4te d'Azur, Russian oligarchs and Arab sheiks deem three-room flats to be unworthy of their status. As a result, the former playground of the millionaire jet set, which once provided homes for the Onassis and Agnelli families, now has to make do with the merely wealthy instead of the super-rich.\"Property in Monaco is a unique market of foreign investors who pay cash. We have the highest housing prices per square metre in the world, ranging from \u20ac25,000 to \u20ac50,000 because of the chronic shortage of supply,\" said Michel Dotta, a major estate agent in the principality.Despite Prince Albert's internship with JP Morgan in New York after graduating from Amherst College in the US, he is not interested in banking, except for socially responsible investment products dealing with ecology and sustainable development. Yet financial institutions pay massive corporation tax, and despite having no debt and a \u20ac2bn strategic investment fund, Monaco has an operating deficit of between \u20ac70m and \u20ac80m per year.Aware of these budgetary constraints, the Monaco government has begun to modernise its financial laws, and make them a better fit for its Anglo-Saxon clientele. The government also wants to diversify the geographic origins of its non-residents by attracting banks from emerging countries. Recently a Lebanese bank and a well-known Indian one have set up subsidiaries. The new finance minister, Marco Piccinini, was Monaco's former ambassador to Beijing.In addition, the prince has given the green light to a joint venture between Monaco and the Qatar Sovereign Fund to set up a chain of luxury hotels-cum-casinos across Asia.Monaco's magic has to serve both legend and business.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Monaco", "Tax avoidance", "Money"], "title": "Modern Monaco puts responsibility ahead of capital gains"},{"date": "2011-07-08T23:10:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Any hopes that \"princess mania\" might die down have now been dashed by Kate's first royal trip to Canada. If anything, England's new princess looks set to attract ever more attention as the tour moves to California. But this week, as images were beamed back of her every outfit and move, a tale of another princess offered an interesting counterpoint. Pictures of Monaco's implausibly named Princess Charlene weeping through her wedding were an unsettling reminder that the reality of marrying into the European monarchy can be rather darker and more coercive.Princess Diana's ghost was hovering over both \"princess events\", possibly conjured up by scary photofit accompanying a recent Newsweek article by Tina Brown. Brown's article asked what Diana would have been like at 50. But perhaps, given Diana's unhappy example, the article ought to have asked other questions: why is our culture still so in thrall to the myth of the perfect princess and the happily-ever-after marriage? Why have we forgotten what that did to her?The pull of this myth has been on full view during Kate and William's Canadian trip. Over a thousand photographers and journalists have followed them, a level of attention for a royal tour unseen since Diana's heyday. One can only imagine what the famously jealous Prince Charles, whose tours command only a handful of journalists, feels about being so upstaged. And while there is a great deal of interest in Prince Willliam \u2013 still young(ish), still presentable, and still carrying the affection that was extended to him after his mother died \u2013 it is the new princess (yes, she is a duchess by name, but a princess in every other sense) who really excites the\u00a0media and the public.The comments of the crowds turning out to greet her are revealing. They enthuse about how \"sweet\" and \"gracious\" she is, how her skin glows. Children interviewed about talking to \"a\u00a0real-life princess\" said she was \"kind\" and \"beautiful\". Just as in the fairytales, the requirements on a real-life princess are pretty minimal: she has to\u00a0have had the perfect wedding and then she has to look beautiful. Kate is performing well on both fronts, although one\u00a0can't help noticing how thin she is and wondering about the strain of such\u00a0attention.In contrast to his father, William exudes enjoyment of his wife's popularity. Charles's failure to understand the public interest in the role of princess and future queen was just one of the many things he didn't grasp about his wife. But it had serious consequences. Hereditary royal power and privilege is problematic in an egalitarian democratic society, and royalty only survives through its symbolic potency. Increasingly, that symbolism has been located in the female royals. A female royal can represent power that is politically unthreatening, embodying ideals such as family stability and continuity \u2013 as the Queen has done. Increasingly, in a celebrity-fixated culture, female royals are also carrying other expectations, that they should be stylish and have the\u00a0perfect body. If the woman is also a commoner, she makes the hereditary monarchy, with all its ancient privileges, look democratic and accessible.Royalty needs these modern connotations and its female stars, but it is in fact\u00a0a deeply old-fashioned patriarchal institution, positively medieval in the case of Monaco. For a modern young woman, suddenly becoming the centre of attention \u2013 idolised in public, but coerced in private \u2013 can be traumatic, as Diana discovered. This dark side of the fairytale was conjured up by images of Prince Albert and Princess Charlene's nuptials. Like Diana, Charlene clearly had her doubts. But while Diana's were expressed in private to her sister, who dismissed them as \"too late\" since her \"face was already on the tea towels\", Charlene's were on full display. Rumours had swirled in the European press that after reports of yet another paternity case against Albert \u2013 and this time a child allegedly conceived during Charlene's relationship with him \u2013 she had tried to run away three times back to South Africa, where she grew up. Her weeping at the vows looked more like distress than sentiment. Prince Albert's failure to comfort his bride brought to\u00a0mind Prince Charles's public indifference to Diana, as did later pictures showing Charlene grimacing at\u00a0Albert's kiss. If this was a fairytale romance, then it was the Brothers Grimm version.Hello! magazine's description was revealing. \"With her head ever so slightly bowed, but with a composed smile on her face, the 33-year-old, who was raised thousands of miles away in a humble South African family, looked like\u00a0she had been born to the role.\" Overlooking the bride's apparent distress, the magazine drooled over the details \u2013 the dress, the music by Paul McCartney, the\u00a0celebrity guests. \"There were gasps from the attendees as they took in her breathtaking appearance \u2013 her gorgeous Armani dress, with its spectacular train, and her hair, which was gathered at the nape with a jewelled headpiece.\"While we expect overblown nonsense from Hello! (and can expect the marital disaster that usually follows), it sheds light on what is at stake in the modern fantasy: there must be a \"fairytale\" setting; her designer dress, hair and makeup must be perfect; there must be celebrities; her prince must be dashing; she must be thin. The aim of a royal wedding is to become \"iconic\" (Hello!'s words again). Hanging over their wedding was the ultimate modern-day iconic royal wedding: that of Albert's own mother, Princess Grace, who set the\u00a0standard with her mix of style, Hollywood glamour and outsider status. Charlene scored well: the outsider from a humble background, who through her physique (she was an Olympic swimmer) captured the heart of ancient monarchy. It was only her tears that suggested her own unconscious recognised that far from a fairytale, this, in fact, may be the beginning of a long struggle.Marina Warner, writing about the persistent appeal of the princess fantasy, cast light on what is at stake. The princess fairytale has \"vindication\" as a theme. Fairytale heroines \u2013 Cinderella, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty \u2013 are all females who are lost, or mistreated; their beauty remaining unacknowledged until the special prince recognises them. \"These fairytale heroines are hidden from view, either locked up in a tower or disguised by soot and rags. The happy outcome reveals her true worth. The story promises vindication \u2013 one day you, too, will be discovered and understood and seen to be special.\" Maybe that is why every bride wants her own royal wedding: it is the supreme moment of recognition. But what is being recognised? Is it the bride for who she is, or the bride for how much she can look like a princess?In the commercialised environment of the contemporary wedding, more and more brides are aspiring to this symbolism. Kate and William's wedding gave it a huge boost. To the bewilderment of a generation of feminists, girls throughout the country snapped up princess dolls and tiaras while wedding days have became ever-more elaborate \"princess for the day\" fantasies. Celebrity weddings are all about this. The Beckhams aped a royal wedding, Katie Price turned up to hers in a pumpkin coach, and even cool Kate\u00a0Moss went for \"fairytale\", surrounding\u00a0herself by Arthur Rackham-style fairy bridesmaids.We were reminded in a humorous way recently how far these fantasies have invaded even the humblest homes. \"No one gets married in a castle,\" wrote the mother-in-law from hell, Carolyn Bourne, in her now notorious email, \"unless they own it. It is brash, celebrity-style behaviour and it would be most ladylike and gracious to lower your sights and have a modest wedding, as befits both your incomes.\"Given the event has assumed such importance, it was all the more dramatic that Princess Charlene so spectacularly blew hers. She had found her prince wasn't a fairytale prince, but an all-too-real one before the event \u2013 rather than after it, as in Diana's case. Standing in her glorious dress in the glorious setting, it was a dramatic embodiment of the price a woman might have to pay in being inserted into monarchy to renew and modernise it. The event may have recognised her as special enough to be a\u00a0princess, but had it recognised her need for personal happiness? Perhaps all brides, planning their elaborate settings and fussing over details, should ask a similar question; is this event recognising me or my ability to become a princess for a day? The ghost at every fairytale princess's wedding surely has to be Diana saying \"remember me\".After two days and EUR 20m\u00a0of princely wedding festivities in the tiny Mediterranean tax haven of Monaco, one image has come to define the new crown-princess, Charlene.The working-class South African, just married to a prince 20 years her senior, emerged from the royal chapel where she laid her bouquet with top lip wobbling and a tear rolling down her cheek. While she dabbed the tears with a hankie, Prince Albert begged in a whisper, \"Don't cry, don't cry.\"Palace officials of the principality are still trying to limit the damage done by the rumour, days before the wedding, that Charlene had tried to flee and was stopped at Nice airport with a one-way ticket to South Africa. After a palace lawyer threatened an injunction against\u00a0a French magazine that reported the story, sources involved in the wedding planning accepted that there had been some kind\u00a0of \"lovers' tiff\". The\u00a0French press is\u00a0trying to establish whether a woman had come forward alleging the 53-year-old prince had fathered another illegitimate child (he\u00a0has already acknowledged a son and\u00a0a daughter). With no confirmation of a new love-child story, celebrity magazines have sniffed around other rumours that Charlene, 33, tried to flee several times in recent months.Despite the trademark blonde\u00a0chignon, Charlene's background is far from Albert's mother, Grace Kelly, who\u00a0was a seasoned, media-savvy Hollywood star when she married her prince. Charlene could now be subsumed into the myth of the \"curse of the rock\", in which the love lives of the Grimaldis are said to be\u00a0fated with pain and suffering. (Kelly\u00a0died in a car crash, her\u00a0daughter Caroline lost a husband in\u00a0a speedboat crash and Stephanie has\u00a0suffered through broken marriages and\u00a0divorce.)But Charlene, backed by palace PRs, may well metamorphose into not just the usual emblem of charity causes, but a fashion symbol who could introduce Monaco's first fashion week. She has posed for Vogue, been coached by Karl\u00a0Lagerfeld and has started designing her own outfits. The next chapter, and her most important role, is to provide an heir \u2013 preferably male \u2013 to ensure that Monaco keeps its special status under another generation of the Grimaldi dynasty. Angelique Chrisafis in Paris\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 9 July 2011. In the headline, Kate Middleton's surname was spelt incorrectly.", "tags": ["The Duchess of Cambridge", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Prince William", "Monaco", "Europe", "Weddings", "Life and style"], "title": "Kate Middleton and Charlene Wittstock: A tale of two princesses"},{"date": "2011-10-26T16:30:52Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "A Grace Kelly biopic would appear to be a no-brainer. Hers was a life of high drama: an A-list film career, a tumultuous love life, a royal wedding watched by 30 million people and an untimely death following a car crash. Even her politician father was a triple-Olympic gold medallist.But upcoming film Grace of Monaco, which has just secured its $15m (\u00a39.3m) funding, will focus on six months in 1962, when Charles de Gaulle and Prince Rainier III were at odds over Monaco's standing as a tax haven. Kelly, then 33, was said to have been instrumental behind the scenes to solve the political impasse.The script is by Arash Amel, whose sole credit to date is The Expatriate, a CIA drama starring Aaron Eckhart and due out next year. Producer Pierre-Ange Le Pogam (Tell No One) is said to be looking for a director, plus an actor to take the lead role.Grace of Monaco follows in the footsteps of the forthcoming My Week With Marilyn and last year's The King's Speech in taking a snapshot of a 20th-century celebrity at a particular moment in their life. The Iron Lady, the biopic of Margaret Thatcher, due out in January 2012, reportedly takes a more conventional biopic approach.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Monaco", "Celebrity"], "title": "Grace Kelly returns to Hollywood"},{"date": "2011-10-26T16:30:52Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "A Grace Kelly biopic would appear to be a no-brainer. Hers was a life of high drama: an A-list film career, a tumultuous love life, a royal wedding watched by 30 million people and an untimely death following a car crash. Even her politician father was a triple-Olympic gold medallist.But upcoming film Grace of Monaco, which has just secured its $15m (\u00a39.3m) funding, will focus on six months in 1962, when Charles de Gaulle and Prince Rainier III were at odds over Monaco's standing as a tax haven. Kelly, then 33, was said to have been instrumental behind the scenes to solve the political impasse.The script is by Arash Amel, whose sole credit to date is The Expatriate, a CIA drama starring Aaron Eckhart and due out next year. Producer Pierre-Ange Le Pogam (Tell No One) is said to be looking for a director, plus an actor to take the lead role.Grace of Monaco follows in the footsteps of the forthcoming My Week With Marilyn and last year's The King's Speech in taking a snapshot of a 20th-century celebrity at a particular moment in their life. The Iron Lady, the biopic of Margaret Thatcher, due out in January 2012, reportedly takes a more conventional biopic approach.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Monaco", "Celebrity"], "title": "Grace Kelly returns to Hollywood"},{"date": "2011-10-04T15:09:03Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Fog was blamed for the success of a surprise raid by a combined fleet of 50 French, Genoese and Mon\u00e9gasque galleys on Southampton on 4 October, 1338. It was the start of the hundred years' war. The attackers had already burned Portsmouth when they moved on to the richer pickings of Southampton.It was Sunday and many of the inhabitants were in church when the overwhelming force entered the town under cover of sea fog. The militia fled leaving many inhabitants to be hanged in their homes. Others believed that St Michael's church would provide sanctuary, but the raiders set fire to wooden buildings nearby and massacred the congregation. Altogether 630 townsfolk were killed, about a third of the population. Others were taken as slaves. The raiders were not invaders but were more like pirates. They were after the valuable wool, which was Southampton's major export and its cellars of wine, the major import. The undefended merchants' houses along the quay, with their vast cellars full of potential loot, were the main targets.That foggy day had two lasting consequences. Charles Grimaldi, who commanded the Mon\u00e9gasque ships, used the booty he carried off, including the contents of Edward III's wine cellar, to found the principality of Monaco. The second was the fortification of the port, ordered by an enraged Edward, to prevent a repeat of this blow to English pride. Most of the medieval walls and towers built as a result can still be seen.", "tags": ["Southampton", "Weather"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Fog helped raiders get rich pickings from Southampton"},{"date": "2012-03-25T18:33:06Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "With an estimated \u00a3750m fortune, according to the Sunday Times rich list, Peter Cruddas is one of the wealthier members of the Conservative party and had been its co-treasurer since June of last year.His biography, on the website of his Peter Cruddas Foundation, which aims to benefit \"disadvantaged and disengaged\" young people in society, states that Cruddas himself came from a disadvantaged background.Born in Hackney, east London, a lack of family finances forced him to leave Shoreditch comprehensive school with no qualifications at the age of 15, despite having the academic ability.He would not, he states, be who he is without the Scouts organisation, which enabled him to \"escape a violent home situation and the inner\u00a0city\".His first job was as a telex operator for Western Union in the City, and after being made redundant he went to work in the trading rooms of banks including the Bank of Iran and Marine\u00a0Midland.Following a career in foreign exchange trading, lastly as head foreign exchange dealer at a large international bank, in 1989 he established his own company, CMC Markets plc, with a capital of \u00a310,000. It is now worth an estimated \u00a31.25bn.Causes he champions include the Prince's Trust and Duke of Edinburgh Awards, as well as the Royal Opera House and Royal Ballet.The twice-married father-of four, 59, whose father was a Smithfield market meat porter, disclosed in an interview with a local Hackney website three years ago that he had homes in Monaco, Antibes, Hertfordshire and Piccadilly, and travelled between them in his private jet.For several years he was one of the City's \"Monaco boys\" living in the tax haven and commuting to work via London's City airport.", "tags": ["Hackney", "Party funding", "London", "UK news", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Business", "Conservatives", "Politics", "Lobbying"], "title": "Peter Cruddas: from East End lad to 'Monaco boy'"},{"date": "2012-04-10T10:21:53Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Nicole Kidman is set to play Grace Kelly, the Oscar-winning Hollywood actor who gave it all up for a life as princess of Monaco, according to the Hollywood Reporter.Grace of Monaco, by screenwriter Arash Amel, was on the 2011 Black List of the best unproduced scripts in Hollywood. It follows the format of recent films such as My Week with Marilyn and The King's Speech, both of which examined a famous 20th-century figure by focusing on a particular moment in their lives. The story on this occasion centres on a six-month period in 1962 when French leader Charles de Gaulle and Monaco's Prince Rainier III were at odds over the opulent principality's standing as a tax haven. Kelly, then 33 and in the first flush of her royal career, was said to have been instrumental behind the scenes in solving the political impasse.The film has the air of classic Oscar-bait and is being directed by Olivier Dahan, whose Edith Piaf biopic La Vie en Rose saw Marion Cotillard take home the Academy Award for best actress in 2008. Kidman won the same Oscar in 2003 for her role as Virginia Woolf in Stephen Daldry's The Hours, and was nominated separately for the best actress and best supporting actress prizes in 2002 and 2011.Dahan's film is likely to follow Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho, which centres on Kelly's famed collaborator and production of his iconic 1960 horror, into cinemas. Anthony Hopkins is to play the British director in the latter film, with Scarlet Johansson as Janet Leigh. Kelly starred in three films for Hitchcock, Dial M For Murder, Rear Window and To Catch a Thief, before quitting Hollywood to marry Rainier in 1955. She died in an a car accident in 1982 and her funeral was watched on television by 30 million people.", "tags": ["Film", "Nicole Kidman", "Alfred Hitchcock", "Culture"], "title": "Nicole Kidman to play Grace Kelly in Grace of Monaco"},{"date": "2012-07-12T16:00:07Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications has been on the slide for some time.As its demerged partner Cable & Wireless Worldwide saw its value boosted by a successful bid from Vodafone, CWC has fallen close to an all time low. But now the City believes it could be turning the corner. Not only is trading expected to improve, but it has the potential to sell businesses for more than its current beaten-down market capitalisation. Long term bear of the shares, analyst Wilton Fry of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, has now become more optimistic, moving his recommendation from underperform to buy with a 40p price target. He said:He said after several years of poor performance in Jamaica, the company could now start to recover market share, while its Bahamas acquisition was settling in well.Crucially, he believes it could sell its assets in Monaco and Macau for more than its total current value:The positive analysis helped CWC climb 1.21p to 31.58p - a rise of nearly 4% - on another downbeat day for the market.With disappointment that the US Federal Reserve had not hinted in its latest minutes at more aggressive action to boost the world's largest economy, an unexpected rate cut in South Korea and worries about the outlook for Spain and Italy, the FTSE 100 finished down 56.23 points at 5608.25. Even reasonable US weekly jobless claims could not improve sentiment. And there was also nervousness ahead of Friday's Chinese GDP figure.David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said:The day's biggest faller in the leading index was Ashmore, the emerging markets fund manager. It dropped 22.2p to 307.8p after fourth quarter assets under management fell by 3.3% to $63.7bn - compared with $64.9bn forecast by Numis - with equities dropping by more than a fifth. Sarah Ing at Singer Capital Markets said:Mining shares subsided on worries about a poor GDP number from China, with Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation down 17.3p at 393.6p and Rio Tinto down 107p at \u00a329.26.But BSkyB rose 4p to 688p after a boost from analysts at Nomura.Ahead of the satellite broadcaster's fourth quarter results due at the end of the month, the bank's analyst Matthew Walker issued a buy note despite forecasting a dip in quarterly revenues compared to last year. He pointed out there was an extra week in 2011 as well as a David Haye pay per view boxing match, which together added an extra \u00a3110m in sales. He said:Media shares were already in focus after Japan's Dentsu agreed to buy UK marketing group Aegis - up 73.1p at 235/3p - for \u00a33.2bn, with the news lifting advertising giant WPP 1p to 785.5p.Security group G4S fell 7.4p to 283p after the Guardian revealed it may not be able to deliver the number of staff it promised to guard the London Olympics.Intercontinental Hotels lost 47p to \u00a315.03 following downbeat comments about international markets from US peer Marriott. Numis cut its recommendation on Intercontinental from buy to add, but Investec said the company should report good half year figures in August:Elsewhere SuperGroup, the fashion retailer behind the Superdry brand, for once managed to avoid a profit warning alongside a trading update, and its shares jumped 50.5p to 385p.Its full year results showed a 15% fall in underlying profits to \u00a342.8m, in line with its most recent guidance. This is after three profit warnings in a year, however. It has suffered stock availability, problems with its new warehouse IT system and - the latest setback - \"arithmetic errors.\" All of this has prompted a management shake-up and promises to communicate better with the City and investors. Chief executive officer Julian Dunkerton said:Finally online gaming group 888 added 9p to 74p after an upbeat trading statement for the second quarter, with growth driven by its casino and poker businesses. It said earnings for the first half would be significantly higher than current expectations. The second half was expected to be hit slightly by the marketing costs of building up its Spanish poker offering and the rival attraction of the London Olympics. But the full year figures would still be higher than previously forecast. Simon Davies at Canaccord Genuity said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications", "Ashmore", "Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation", "Rio Tinto", "Sky plc", "Aegis", "WPP", "G4S", "InterContinental Hotels", "SuperGroup"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications unwanted assets worth more than whole company, says Merrill"},{"date": "2012-07-12T16:00:07Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications has been on the slide for some time.As its demerged partner Cable & Wireless Worldwide saw its value boosted by a successful bid from Vodafone, CWC has fallen close to an all time low. But now the City believes it could be turning the corner. Not only is trading expected to improve, but it has the potential to sell businesses for more than its current beaten-down market capitalisation. Long term bear of the shares, analyst Wilton Fry of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, has now become more optimistic, moving his recommendation from underperform to buy with a 40p price target. He said:He said after several years of poor performance in Jamaica, the company could now start to recover market share, while its Bahamas acquisition was settling in well.Crucially, he believes it could sell its assets in Monaco and Macau for more than its total current value:The positive analysis helped CWC climb 1.21p to 31.58p - a rise of nearly 4% - on another downbeat day for the market.With disappointment that the US Federal Reserve had not hinted in its latest minutes at more aggressive action to boost the world's largest economy, an unexpected rate cut in South Korea and worries about the outlook for Spain and Italy, the FTSE 100 finished down 56.23 points at 5608.25. Even reasonable US weekly jobless claims could not improve sentiment. And there was also nervousness ahead of Friday's Chinese GDP figure.David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said:The day's biggest faller in the leading index was Ashmore, the emerging markets fund manager. It dropped 22.2p to 307.8p after fourth quarter assets under management fell by 3.3% to $63.7bn - compared with $64.9bn forecast by Numis - with equities dropping by more than a fifth. Sarah Ing at Singer Capital Markets said:Mining shares subsided on worries about a poor GDP number from China, with Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation down 17.3p at 393.6p and Rio Tinto down 107p at \u00a329.26.But BSkyB rose 4p to 688p after a boost from analysts at Nomura.Ahead of the satellite broadcaster's fourth quarter results due at the end of the month, the bank's analyst Matthew Walker issued a buy note despite forecasting a dip in quarterly revenues compared to last year. He pointed out there was an extra week in 2011 as well as a David Haye pay per view boxing match, which together added an extra \u00a3110m in sales. He said:Media shares were already in focus after Japan's Dentsu agreed to buy UK marketing group Aegis - up 73.1p at 235/3p - for \u00a33.2bn, with the news lifting advertising giant WPP 1p to 785.5p.Security group G4S fell 7.4p to 283p after the Guardian revealed it may not be able to deliver the number of staff it promised to guard the London Olympics.Intercontinental Hotels lost 47p to \u00a315.03 following downbeat comments about international markets from US peer Marriott. Numis cut its recommendation on Intercontinental from buy to add, but Investec said the company should report good half year figures in August:Elsewhere SuperGroup, the fashion retailer behind the Superdry brand, for once managed to avoid a profit warning alongside a trading update, and its shares jumped 50.5p to 385p.Its full year results showed a 15% fall in underlying profits to \u00a342.8m, in line with its most recent guidance. This is after three profit warnings in a year, however. It has suffered stock availability, problems with its new warehouse IT system and - the latest setback - \"arithmetic errors.\" All of this has prompted a management shake-up and promises to communicate better with the City and investors. Chief executive officer Julian Dunkerton said:Finally online gaming group 888 added 9p to 74p after an upbeat trading statement for the second quarter, with growth driven by its casino and poker businesses. It said earnings for the first half would be significantly higher than current expectations. The second half was expected to be hit slightly by the marketing costs of building up its Spanish poker offering and the rival attraction of the London Olympics. But the full year figures would still be higher than previously forecast. Simon Davies at Canaccord Genuity said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications", "Ashmore", "Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation", "Rio Tinto", "Sky plc", "Aegis", "WPP", "G4S", "InterContinental Hotels", "SuperGroup"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications unwanted assets worth more than whole company, says Merrill"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:47:22Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications - which last week revealed it was in talks about selling its Monaco & Islands operations for around $1bn - has fallen sharply after a negative broker note.Liberum Capital has moved from hold to sell, saying that the shares have moved higher after May's dividend cut, partly buoyed by hopes of restructuring. The Monaco & Islands deal suggests there is substance to this hope, said analyst Lawrence Sugarman, but the valuation is now starting to look stretched:But he believed a restructuring was a good way forward for the business:CWC shares are currently 0.7p lower at 37.2p, a decline of almost 2%.", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications drops after broker sell note"},{"date": "2012-07-12T16:00:07Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications has been on the slide for some time.As its demerged partner Cable & Wireless Worldwide saw its value boosted by a successful bid from Vodafone, CWC has fallen close to an all time low. But now the City believes it could be turning the corner. Not only is trading expected to improve, but it has the potential to sell businesses for more than its current beaten-down market capitalisation. Long term bear of the shares, analyst Wilton Fry of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, has now become more optimistic, moving his recommendation from underperform to buy with a 40p price target. He said:He said after several years of poor performance in Jamaica, the company could now start to recover market share, while its Bahamas acquisition was settling in well.Crucially, he believes it could sell its assets in Monaco and Macau for more than its total current value:The positive analysis helped CWC climb 1.21p to 31.58p - a rise of nearly 4% - on another downbeat day for the market.With disappointment that the US Federal Reserve had not hinted in its latest minutes at more aggressive action to boost the world's largest economy, an unexpected rate cut in South Korea and worries about the outlook for Spain and Italy, the FTSE 100 finished down 56.23 points at 5608.25. Even reasonable US weekly jobless claims could not improve sentiment. And there was also nervousness ahead of Friday's Chinese GDP figure.David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said:The day's biggest faller in the leading index was Ashmore, the emerging markets fund manager. It dropped 22.2p to 307.8p after fourth quarter assets under management fell by 3.3% to $63.7bn - compared with $64.9bn forecast by Numis - with equities dropping by more than a fifth. Sarah Ing at Singer Capital Markets said:Mining shares subsided on worries about a poor GDP number from China, with Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation down 17.3p at 393.6p and Rio Tinto down 107p at \u00a329.26.But BSkyB rose 4p to 688p after a boost from analysts at Nomura.Ahead of the satellite broadcaster's fourth quarter results due at the end of the month, the bank's analyst Matthew Walker issued a buy note despite forecasting a dip in quarterly revenues compared to last year. He pointed out there was an extra week in 2011 as well as a David Haye pay per view boxing match, which together added an extra \u00a3110m in sales. He said:Media shares were already in focus after Japan's Dentsu agreed to buy UK marketing group Aegis - up 73.1p at 235/3p - for \u00a33.2bn, with the news lifting advertising giant WPP 1p to 785.5p.Security group G4S fell 7.4p to 283p after the Guardian revealed it may not be able to deliver the number of staff it promised to guard the London Olympics.Intercontinental Hotels lost 47p to \u00a315.03 following downbeat comments about international markets from US peer Marriott. Numis cut its recommendation on Intercontinental from buy to add, but Investec said the company should report good half year figures in August:Elsewhere SuperGroup, the fashion retailer behind the Superdry brand, for once managed to avoid a profit warning alongside a trading update, and its shares jumped 50.5p to 385p.Its full year results showed a 15% fall in underlying profits to \u00a342.8m, in line with its most recent guidance. This is after three profit warnings in a year, however. It has suffered stock availability, problems with its new warehouse IT system and - the latest setback - \"arithmetic errors.\" All of this has prompted a management shake-up and promises to communicate better with the City and investors. Chief executive officer Julian Dunkerton said:Finally online gaming group 888 added 9p to 74p after an upbeat trading statement for the second quarter, with growth driven by its casino and poker businesses. It said earnings for the first half would be significantly higher than current expectations. The second half was expected to be hit slightly by the marketing costs of building up its Spanish poker offering and the rival attraction of the London Olympics. But the full year figures would still be higher than previously forecast. Simon Davies at Canaccord Genuity said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications", "Ashmore", "Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation", "Rio Tinto", "Sky plc", "Aegis", "WPP", "G4S", "InterContinental Hotels", "SuperGroup"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications unwanted assets worth more than whole company, says Merrill"},{"date": "2012-09-25T09:47:22Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications - which last week revealed it was in talks about selling its Monaco & Islands operations for around $1bn - has fallen sharply after a negative broker note.Liberum Capital has moved from hold to sell, saying that the shares have moved higher after May's dividend cut, partly buoyed by hopes of restructuring. The Monaco & Islands deal suggests there is substance to this hope, said analyst Lawrence Sugarman, but the valuation is now starting to look stretched:But he believed a restructuring was a good way forward for the business:CWC shares are currently 0.7p lower at 37.2p, a decline of almost 2%.", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications drops after broker sell note"},{"date": "2012-09-10T18:54:44Z", "country": "monaco", "content": " France's richest man, Bernard Arnault, head of the LVMH luxury group, is suing the leftwing newspaper Lib\u00e9ration for publicly insulting him.Arnault launched a lawsuit on Monday after the paper carried a large photograph of the business tycoon with the headline \"Casse-toi riche con!\" (Get lost, rich jerk) on its front page.The headline echoed the former president Nicolas Sarkozy's insult to a farmworker who refused to shake his hand at the national agricultural show.Sarkozy told the man: \"Casse-toi pauv' con!\" (Get lost, poor jerk).The Lib\u00e9ration story referred to Arnault's announcement that he was seeking Belgian nationality just a day before President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande confirmed a 75% tax band for those earning more than \u20ac1m a year.Hollande has called for exceptional \"solidarity\" from the rich to help France overcome its economic woes that include high unemployment, public debt and stuttering growth. Hollande has said there will be \"no exceptions\" to the new tax and asked business leaders to lead by example by paying up.Lawyers for Arnault, ranked the world's fourth richest man with a net worth of around $41bn (\u00a325.6bn) by Forbes magazine, announced in a statement that he was suing Lib\u00e9ration for public insult over the headline, which he described as vulgar and violent.Arnault, who transformed LVMH into one of the world's largest luxury firms after taking charge of the group in 1989, has denied that becoming Belgian is an attempt to cut his tax bill and said it was being done for business reasons. He insisted he would continue paying his taxes in France, but his protestations cut little ice with France's governing Socialists.Lib\u00e9ration pictured the suited businessman carrying a suitcase and smiling, and described his demand for Belgian nationality as \"a symbol of the selfishness of the richest\".The move could be the first step towards obtaining citizenship in Monaco, Lib\u00e9ration said. As a Frenchman in Monaco, Arnault would be required to pay French taxes. But if he drops his French nationality after becoming Belgian, he could avoid them.\"France, love it or leave it,\" read the headline on the front page of the Communist daily Humanit\u00e9.The LVMH group includes Christian Dior, Louis Vuitton, Guerlain, Hennessy cognac and the champagne label Mo\u00ebt et Chandon, among others.", "tags": ["France", "Newspapers", "Business", "Europe", "Newspapers & magazines", "World news", "Media", "Bernard Arnault"], "title": "France's richest man Bernard Arnault sues Lib\u00e9ration newspaper over 'insult'"},{"date": "2012-12-03T09:40:42Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications has pleased investors with a near $1bn disposal.As had been flagged, the company has sold the bulk of its businesses in the Monaco & Islands division for an initial $680m in cash to Bahrain communications group Batelco. CWC is keeping a 75% stake in Monaco Telecom but has the right to sell it to Batelco within 12 months for another $345m.The cash will be used to cut CWC's debt to $937m. The deal is part of the group's strategy to reduce its geographical spread and focus on central America and the Caribbean, with its Macau business also currently on the block.The news has lifted CWC shares nearly 6%, up 1.97p to 36.67p Nick Brown at Espirito Santo said:Overall, leading shares have edged higher after good manufacturing data from China and a better than expected purchasing managers' index number from the UK. The FTSE 100 is up 14.40 points at 5881.22, with mining groups lifted by the Chinese news.Vedanta Resources has risen 22p to \u00a310.93 and Kazakhmys has climbed 15p to 728.5p.Schroders is the top of the pile, up 53p at \u00a316.49 after analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch moved from neutral to buy. The bank said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications", "Vedanta Resources", "Kazakhmys", "Schroders"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications climbs 6% after $1bn disposal"},{"date": "2012-12-03T09:40:42Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Cable & Wireless Communications has pleased investors with a near $1bn disposal.As had been flagged, the company has sold the bulk of its businesses in the Monaco & Islands division for an initial $680m in cash to Bahrain communications group Batelco. CWC is keeping a 75% stake in Monaco Telecom but has the right to sell it to Batelco within 12 months for another $345m.The cash will be used to cut CWC's debt to $937m. The deal is part of the group's strategy to reduce its geographical spread and focus on central America and the Caribbean, with its Macau business also currently on the block.The news has lifted CWC shares nearly 6%, up 1.97p to 36.67p Nick Brown at Espirito Santo said:Overall, leading shares have edged higher after good manufacturing data from China and a better than expected purchasing managers' index number from the UK. The FTSE 100 is up 14.40 points at 5881.22, with mining groups lifted by the Chinese news.Vedanta Resources has risen 22p to \u00a310.93 and Kazakhmys has climbed 15p to 728.5p.Schroders is the top of the pile, up 53p at \u00a316.49 after analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch moved from neutral to buy. The bank said:", "tags": ["Business", "Cable & Wireless Communications", "Vedanta Resources", "Kazakhmys", "Schroders"], "title": "Cable & Wireless Communications climbs 6% after $1bn disposal"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2013-02-25T13:01:53Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Monaco's royal family may have denounced it as \"pure fiction\", but the first official picture of Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly suggests the Australian actor looks the part in the forthcoming biopic Grace of Monaco.Directed by La Vie En Rose's Olivier Dahan, the film reportedly tells the story of Grace's intervention between France and Monaco in 1962, when the two states were in dispute over tax laws in the principality and a coup was a genuine possibility. Kidman, 45, plays Kelly in her early 30s, but the princess's children are more concerned about what they perceive as a \"pointlessly glamorised\" depiction of their mother. Prince Albert, the current ruling monarch of Monaco, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie last month denouncing the project as historically inaccurate. \"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said.Kidman, responding at a special screening of her new film Stoker in London last week, said she was determined to present a carefully crafted take on Alfred Hitchcock's best known muse. \"I wanted to be respectful of her, her story and her essence so hopefully that will all come through,\" she said. \"It's exciting but at first it was daunting. At the same time I had studied her and felt a kind of tenderness towards her.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after the star of Dial M for Murder and Rear Window left Hollywood for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956. She died in 1982 after suffering a stroke at the wheel of her car.Grace of Monaco is due in cinemas for 2014.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Culture", "Biopics", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco: Nicole Kidman looks a princess"},{"date": "2013-02-25T13:01:53Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Monaco's royal family may have denounced it as \"pure fiction\", but the first official picture of Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly suggests the Australian actor looks the part in the forthcoming biopic Grace of Monaco.Directed by La Vie En Rose's Olivier Dahan, the film reportedly tells the story of Grace's intervention between France and Monaco in 1962, when the two states were in dispute over tax laws in the principality and a coup was a genuine possibility. Kidman, 45, plays Kelly in her early 30s, but the princess's children are more concerned about what they perceive as a \"pointlessly glamorised\" depiction of their mother. Prince Albert, the current ruling monarch of Monaco, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie last month denouncing the project as historically inaccurate. \"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said.Kidman, responding at a special screening of her new film Stoker in London last week, said she was determined to present a carefully crafted take on Alfred Hitchcock's best known muse. \"I wanted to be respectful of her, her story and her essence so hopefully that will all come through,\" she said. \"It's exciting but at first it was daunting. At the same time I had studied her and felt a kind of tenderness towards her.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after the star of Dial M for Murder and Rear Window left Hollywood for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956. She died in 1982 after suffering a stroke at the wheel of her car.Grace of Monaco is due in cinemas for 2014.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Culture", "Biopics", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco: Nicole Kidman looks a princess"},{"date": "2013-01-17T11:48:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Prince Albert of Monaco and his two sisters have labelled a new biopic starring Nicole Kidman as their mother Grace Kelly \"pure fiction\".Albert, the current ruling monarch of the Mediterranean principality, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie denouncing the project, which is titled Grace of Monaco.\"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said in a statement. \"For us, this film does not constitute a biographical work but portrays only a part of her life and has been pointlessly glamorised and contains important historical inaccuracies as well as scenes of pure fiction.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after she departed Hollywood, where she was one of the most famous actors in the world and a favourite of Alfred Hitchcock in classic movies such as Dial M for Murder and Rear Window, for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956.Due for release in 2014, Grace of Monaco examines Kelly's first few years in Monaco, and has drawn attention due to the fact that 45-year-old Kidman is set to play 32-year-old Kelly. The film reportedly centres on the period in 1962 when Monaco and France were in dispute, with Grace playing a vital role in helping to avoid a coup. The film is currently in production, with La Vie en Rose director Olivier Dahan on board, and Tim Roth in the role of Prince Rainier.Kidman has said the film interested her for the way it covers the young actor's transition from film star to princess in 1962. \"It reveals her great humanity but also her fears and frailties as she leaves her career behind,\" she said.Kelly, who was born in Philadelphia, died in 1982 when she suffered a stroke at the wheel of her car. Rainier ruled until 2005, when he died at the age of 81 as a result of multiple conditions.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Biopics", "Culture", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Nicole Kidman's Grace Kelly biopic 'inaccurate', say Monaco royals"},{"date": "2013-02-25T13:01:53Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Monaco's royal family may have denounced it as \"pure fiction\", but the first official picture of Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly suggests the Australian actor looks the part in the forthcoming biopic Grace of Monaco.Directed by La Vie En Rose's Olivier Dahan, the film reportedly tells the story of Grace's intervention between France and Monaco in 1962, when the two states were in dispute over tax laws in the principality and a coup was a genuine possibility. Kidman, 45, plays Kelly in her early 30s, but the princess's children are more concerned about what they perceive as a \"pointlessly glamorised\" depiction of their mother. Prince Albert, the current ruling monarch of Monaco, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie last month denouncing the project as historically inaccurate. \"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said.Kidman, responding at a special screening of her new film Stoker in London last week, said she was determined to present a carefully crafted take on Alfred Hitchcock's best known muse. \"I wanted to be respectful of her, her story and her essence so hopefully that will all come through,\" she said. \"It's exciting but at first it was daunting. At the same time I had studied her and felt a kind of tenderness towards her.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after the star of Dial M for Murder and Rear Window left Hollywood for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956. She died in 1982 after suffering a stroke at the wheel of her car.Grace of Monaco is due in cinemas for 2014.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Culture", "Biopics", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco: Nicole Kidman looks a princess"},{"date": "2013-01-17T11:48:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Prince Albert of Monaco and his two sisters have labelled a new biopic starring Nicole Kidman as their mother Grace Kelly \"pure fiction\".Albert, the current ruling monarch of the Mediterranean principality, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie denouncing the project, which is titled Grace of Monaco.\"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said in a statement. \"For us, this film does not constitute a biographical work but portrays only a part of her life and has been pointlessly glamorised and contains important historical inaccuracies as well as scenes of pure fiction.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after she departed Hollywood, where she was one of the most famous actors in the world and a favourite of Alfred Hitchcock in classic movies such as Dial M for Murder and Rear Window, for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956.Due for release in 2014, Grace of Monaco examines Kelly's first few years in Monaco, and has drawn attention due to the fact that 45-year-old Kidman is set to play 32-year-old Kelly. The film reportedly centres on the period in 1962 when Monaco and France were in dispute, with Grace playing a vital role in helping to avoid a coup. The film is currently in production, with La Vie en Rose director Olivier Dahan on board, and Tim Roth in the role of Prince Rainier.Kidman has said the film interested her for the way it covers the young actor's transition from film star to princess in 1962. \"It reveals her great humanity but also her fears and frailties as she leaves her career behind,\" she said.Kelly, who was born in Philadelphia, died in 1982 when she suffered a stroke at the wheel of her car. Rainier ruled until 2005, when he died at the age of 81 as a result of multiple conditions.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Biopics", "Culture", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Nicole Kidman's Grace Kelly biopic 'inaccurate', say Monaco royals"},{"date": "2013-01-15T11:26:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Prince Albert of Monaco has accepted a high court apology and substantial damages from the Sunday Times over \"seriously defamatory allegations\" that he had entered a sham marriage with Charlene Wittstock.The prince sued the News International paper following the publication of the article in July 2011 for damages of more than \u00a3300,000, but the high court heard on Tuesday morning that the exact settlement has yet to be agreed. The Sunday Times will also pay Prince Albert's legal costs.Rupert Earle, a lawyer representing the Sunday Times, said the paper offered \"its sincere apologies to the claimants for the damage, as well as the distress caused\".In a statement read out in court, it also agreed that the paper had falsely alleged that Prince Albert had \"turned a blind eye to corrupt activity by his courtiers and had done nothing effective to curb the activities of mobsters and money launderers in the principality\".The article was published on 3 July 2011, just two days after the couple were married \u2013 it was headlined \"The Full Monte\" and \"Curse of the Grimaldis\". It wrongly claimed that Prince Albert's wife had agreed to take part in a sham marriage because he paid her so much money to go through the pretence of an extravagant wedding, despite her discovering that he had fathered an illegitimate child with another woman during their relationship.The prince and princess said the story had caused considerable hurt, distress and embarrassment.Mr Justice Eady, presiding over the case in the high court, heard that the article also wrongly alleged that Prince Albert had granted residency in Monaco to foreigners on the request of friends and advisers for fear they would disclose embarrassing secrets about his love life.\"It also accused him of having Her Serene Highness Princess Charlene's passport confiscated at Nice airport in order to prevent her from leaving Monaco, so that she would marry him for appearance's sake,\" Prince Albert's lawyer Mark Thomson said in court.He added that the Sunday Times also made the defamatory suggestion that Princess Charlene had attempted to flee the principality because she had discovered the existence of a third love child by another woman and she had reluctantly agreed to marry the prince in exchange for money with a view to \"obtaining an annulment after a seemly interval\".The final libel, Thomson told the court, was the allegation that Prince Albert \"had paid his allegedly reluctant bride for going through with the marriage with the intent of allowing her afterwards to annul the marriage quietly\".\"None of these allegations are true,\" said Thomson in the statement agreed with the paper.\"The article caused the newly-wed couple enormous upset and embarrassment,\" he added, particularly in view of the worldwide interest in their marriage.Prince Albert has launched a second lawsuit against the Sunday Times over false allegations that he entered a sham marriage with his wife Charlene Wittstock.The prince is suing the paper and its editor, John Witherow, and the author of the article, Matthew Campbell, in France over the publication of the article on 3 July 2011 in the paper which is distributed in France.Papers lodged in the French court show Prince Albert is seeking \u20ac100,000 (\u00a383,000) in damages and a legal notice in the Sunday Times in English, along with one in French, in three French newspapers and the Monaco Matin Express. A hearing on the case is scheduled for the Paris courts on Wednesday.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.", "tags": ["Sunday Times", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Law", "UK news", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Sunday Times faces substantial damages bill over Prince Albert of Monaco article"},{"date": "2013-02-25T13:01:53Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Monaco's royal family may have denounced it as \"pure fiction\", but the first official picture of Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly suggests the Australian actor looks the part in the forthcoming biopic Grace of Monaco.Directed by La Vie En Rose's Olivier Dahan, the film reportedly tells the story of Grace's intervention between France and Monaco in 1962, when the two states were in dispute over tax laws in the principality and a coup was a genuine possibility. Kidman, 45, plays Kelly in her early 30s, but the princess's children are more concerned about what they perceive as a \"pointlessly glamorised\" depiction of their mother. Prince Albert, the current ruling monarch of Monaco, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie last month denouncing the project as historically inaccurate. \"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said.Kidman, responding at a special screening of her new film Stoker in London last week, said she was determined to present a carefully crafted take on Alfred Hitchcock's best known muse. \"I wanted to be respectful of her, her story and her essence so hopefully that will all come through,\" she said. \"It's exciting but at first it was daunting. At the same time I had studied her and felt a kind of tenderness towards her.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after the star of Dial M for Murder and Rear Window left Hollywood for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956. She died in 1982 after suffering a stroke at the wheel of her car.Grace of Monaco is due in cinemas for 2014.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Culture", "Biopics", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco: Nicole Kidman looks a princess"},{"date": "2013-01-17T11:48:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Prince Albert of Monaco and his two sisters have labelled a new biopic starring Nicole Kidman as their mother Grace Kelly \"pure fiction\".Albert, the current ruling monarch of the Mediterranean principality, issued a joint statement with Princess Caroline and Princess Stephanie denouncing the project, which is titled Grace of Monaco.\"We have had absolutely no association with this project, which claims to be about the lives of our parents,\" the royal trio said in a statement. \"For us, this film does not constitute a biographical work but portrays only a part of her life and has been pointlessly glamorised and contains important historical inaccuracies as well as scenes of pure fiction.\"Kelly became known as Princess Grace after she departed Hollywood, where she was one of the most famous actors in the world and a favourite of Alfred Hitchcock in classic movies such as Dial M for Murder and Rear Window, for a new life as the wife of Monaco's Prince Rainier III in 1956.Due for release in 2014, Grace of Monaco examines Kelly's first few years in Monaco, and has drawn attention due to the fact that 45-year-old Kidman is set to play 32-year-old Kelly. The film reportedly centres on the period in 1962 when Monaco and France were in dispute, with Grace playing a vital role in helping to avoid a coup. The film is currently in production, with La Vie en Rose director Olivier Dahan on board, and Tim Roth in the role of Prince Rainier.Kidman has said the film interested her for the way it covers the young actor's transition from film star to princess in 1962. \"It reveals her great humanity but also her fears and frailties as she leaves her career behind,\" she said.Kelly, who was born in Philadelphia, died in 1982 when she suffered a stroke at the wheel of her car. Rainier ruled until 2005, when he died at the age of 81 as a result of multiple conditions.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Biopics", "Culture", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Nicole Kidman's Grace Kelly biopic 'inaccurate', say Monaco royals"},{"date": "2013-01-15T11:26:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Prince Albert of Monaco has accepted a high court apology and substantial damages from the Sunday Times over \"seriously defamatory allegations\" that he had entered a sham marriage with Charlene Wittstock.The prince sued the News International paper following the publication of the article in July 2011 for damages of more than \u00a3300,000, but the high court heard on Tuesday morning that the exact settlement has yet to be agreed. The Sunday Times will also pay Prince Albert's legal costs.Rupert Earle, a lawyer representing the Sunday Times, said the paper offered \"its sincere apologies to the claimants for the damage, as well as the distress caused\".In a statement read out in court, it also agreed that the paper had falsely alleged that Prince Albert had \"turned a blind eye to corrupt activity by his courtiers and had done nothing effective to curb the activities of mobsters and money launderers in the principality\".The article was published on 3 July 2011, just two days after the couple were married \u2013 it was headlined \"The Full Monte\" and \"Curse of the Grimaldis\". It wrongly claimed that Prince Albert's wife had agreed to take part in a sham marriage because he paid her so much money to go through the pretence of an extravagant wedding, despite her discovering that he had fathered an illegitimate child with another woman during their relationship.The prince and princess said the story had caused considerable hurt, distress and embarrassment.Mr Justice Eady, presiding over the case in the high court, heard that the article also wrongly alleged that Prince Albert had granted residency in Monaco to foreigners on the request of friends and advisers for fear they would disclose embarrassing secrets about his love life.\"It also accused him of having Her Serene Highness Princess Charlene's passport confiscated at Nice airport in order to prevent her from leaving Monaco, so that she would marry him for appearance's sake,\" Prince Albert's lawyer Mark Thomson said in court.He added that the Sunday Times also made the defamatory suggestion that Princess Charlene had attempted to flee the principality because she had discovered the existence of a third love child by another woman and she had reluctantly agreed to marry the prince in exchange for money with a view to \"obtaining an annulment after a seemly interval\".The final libel, Thomson told the court, was the allegation that Prince Albert \"had paid his allegedly reluctant bride for going through with the marriage with the intent of allowing her afterwards to annul the marriage quietly\".\"None of these allegations are true,\" said Thomson in the statement agreed with the paper.\"The article caused the newly-wed couple enormous upset and embarrassment,\" he added, particularly in view of the worldwide interest in their marriage.Prince Albert has launched a second lawsuit against the Sunday Times over false allegations that he entered a sham marriage with his wife Charlene Wittstock.The prince is suing the paper and its editor, John Witherow, and the author of the article, Matthew Campbell, in France over the publication of the article on 3 July 2011 in the paper which is distributed in France.Papers lodged in the French court show Prince Albert is seeking \u20ac100,000 (\u00a383,000) in damages and a legal notice in the Sunday Times in English, along with one in French, in three French newspapers and the Monaco Matin Express. A hearing on the case is scheduled for the Paris courts on Wednesday.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.", "tags": ["Sunday Times", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Law", "UK news", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Sunday Times faces substantial damages bill over Prince Albert of Monaco article"},{"date": "2013-02-23T07:00:11Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Sally Draper Likely to continue to scene-steal from the grown-ups in\u00a0Mad Men 6.Club Monaco New label crush. Block coloured separates, co-ord sets, sporty trousers \u2013 perfect for a sharp, minimalist wardrobe. Good print trousers for chaps, too.Glastonbury 2013 With rumours of Bowie, Fleetwood Mac and Daft Punk, we've got our fingers crossed for resale tickets on 21 April.White-blond hair See Gosling in The\u00a0Place Beyond The Pines and Cumberbatch as Assange. It's\u00a0so off, it's good.Chocolate peanut butter To\u00a02013 what salted caramel\u00a0was to last year, mark our words.Thick-rimmed specs We're feeling wire frames as sported by Amanda Seyfried playing Linda Lovelace.Cobalt We're all about periwinkle now (it's a bit more lavender, FYI).Mondays Never great, even grumpier now everyone's on the 5:2 diet, and picking Monday as a 500-calorie day.Draping your scarf pashmina-style A neat, neck-tie arrangement is much more modern. Style icon: Brix in season one of The Killing.Bra tops They might be the \"item of the season\", but it is February.", "tags": ["Fashion", "Life and style", "Mad Men", "Television", "US television", "Julian Assange", "Media", "Benedict Cumberbatch"], "title": "The Measure: what's hot and what's not"},{"date": "2013-09-25T14:47:32Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ed Miliband's assertion that the rising tide of economic fortune used to lift all boats, but now only seems to lift yachts, would certainly seem to be borne out by the Monaco Yacht Show. The show, which has just begun, boasts Europe's largest collection of superyachts. At the show the Labour leader would find that demand is once again surging for the ultimate billionaire's plaything, ranging from an entry-level 30 metre-long boat costing around \u00a310m, to gigantic vessels with 90-strong crews that are effectively private cruise liners.The UK superyacht industry \u2013 a superyacht is more than 24 metres long \u2013 has reported record revenues of \u00a3460m, up 4% on last year, as more of their traditional customers in the US, Russia and the Middle East place orders for these custom-built, floating palaces.In a survey of 138 companies in the superyacht industry, half reported an increased workload compared to a year ago, while only 19% \u2013 a smaller proportion than last year \u2013 said their workload had gone down.The companies, which include yacht builders, designers and legal firms, are also in their most upbeat mood since before the economic crash, with 69% rating their prospects for the year ahead as \"good or excellent\", compared with 51% last year.Tom Chant of Superyacht UK said the industry was in a buoyant mood, but profits had not yet returned to the 2007 pre-recession era.\"That was a particular bubble that has definitely burst.\" Current growth was more stable, he said. \"The people who are coming into the market do have the money, they are not borrowing on banks who have borrowed on other things. The buyers that are coming in are good solid buyers who are there for the long-term.\"The UK industry, which employs 3,550 people, has further room to grow. \"There are more yards that could build yachts, than there are yachts with orders,\" Chant added.The revival is supported by another industry survey from yachtmaker Camper & Nicholsons, which reported a 37% jump in yacht sales in the first half of the year to around 200 boats. However, the overall value of the market remained flat at $1bn (\u00a3620m), as industry figures are easily skewed by a few hyper-extravagant purchases.The biggest market for superyachts remains the US, followed by Russia and the Middle East. China's super-rich have yet to develop much of an interest, despite the recent sale of Sunseeker International to the country's Dalian Wanda group. In Monaco \"there is lots of talk about the potential of China, but it is just potential,\" said Chant.The downturn slowed yacht buyers' appetite for extra-large yachts, with demand for vessels greater than 50 metres falling in 2011 and 2012, according to Camper & Nicholsons. But there are signs that it may be returning.On the drawing board of the Hampshire-based firm Dubois are plans for a giant sloop, 101 metres long with a 125-metre mast that would dwarf both Big Ben's Elizabeth Tower and the Statue of Liberty.", "tags": ["Recession", "Economics", "Business", "Ed Miliband", "Monaco", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Luxury goods sector"], "title": "Superyacht makers at Monaco Yacht Show buoyant as demand grows"},{"date": "2013-09-25T14:47:32Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ed Miliband's assertion that the rising tide of economic fortune used to lift all boats, but now only seems to lift yachts, would certainly seem to be borne out by the Monaco Yacht Show. The show, which has just begun, boasts Europe's largest collection of superyachts. At the show the Labour leader would find that demand is once again surging for the ultimate billionaire's plaything, ranging from an entry-level 30 metre-long boat costing around \u00a310m, to gigantic vessels with 90-strong crews that are effectively private cruise liners.The UK superyacht industry \u2013 a superyacht is more than 24 metres long \u2013 has reported record revenues of \u00a3460m, up 4% on last year, as more of their traditional customers in the US, Russia and the Middle East place orders for these custom-built, floating palaces.In a survey of 138 companies in the superyacht industry, half reported an increased workload compared to a year ago, while only 19% \u2013 a smaller proportion than last year \u2013 said their workload had gone down.The companies, which include yacht builders, designers and legal firms, are also in their most upbeat mood since before the economic crash, with 69% rating their prospects for the year ahead as \"good or excellent\", compared with 51% last year.Tom Chant of Superyacht UK said the industry was in a buoyant mood, but profits had not yet returned to the 2007 pre-recession era.\"That was a particular bubble that has definitely burst.\" Current growth was more stable, he said. \"The people who are coming into the market do have the money, they are not borrowing on banks who have borrowed on other things. The buyers that are coming in are good solid buyers who are there for the long-term.\"The UK industry, which employs 3,550 people, has further room to grow. \"There are more yards that could build yachts, than there are yachts with orders,\" Chant added.The revival is supported by another industry survey from yachtmaker Camper & Nicholsons, which reported a 37% jump in yacht sales in the first half of the year to around 200 boats. However, the overall value of the market remained flat at $1bn (\u00a3620m), as industry figures are easily skewed by a few hyper-extravagant purchases.The biggest market for superyachts remains the US, followed by Russia and the Middle East. China's super-rich have yet to develop much of an interest, despite the recent sale of Sunseeker International to the country's Dalian Wanda group. In Monaco \"there is lots of talk about the potential of China, but it is just potential,\" said Chant.The downturn slowed yacht buyers' appetite for extra-large yachts, with demand for vessels greater than 50 metres falling in 2011 and 2012, according to Camper & Nicholsons. But there are signs that it may be returning.On the drawing board of the Hampshire-based firm Dubois are plans for a giant sloop, 101 metres long with a 125-metre mast that would dwarf both Big Ben's Elizabeth Tower and the Statue of Liberty.", "tags": ["Recession", "Economics", "Business", "Ed Miliband", "Monaco", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Luxury goods sector"], "title": "Superyacht makers at Monaco Yacht Show buoyant as demand grows"},{"date": "2013-09-13T16:25:31Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The son of Senegal's former president deposited more than \u00a3127m at a bank in Monaco while his father was in office, it has emerged.Authorities in Monaco said Karim Wade placed the money in accounts at the Julius Baer bank between 2002 and 2013. They are co-operating with Senegalese officials who are prosecuting Wade on charges of illicit enrichment following a months-long investigation into how he amassed a fortune of more than $1.3bn during the period when his father, Abdoulaye Wade, was president.Funds held in at least 24 active bank accounts have been linked to 50 companies that Wade is alleged to have used to siphon off state funds. This summer Wade's accounts at the French bank Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale were frozen at the request of Senegal's current president, Macky Sall, who vowed to clamp down on corruption after being elected last year.A widely despised figure during his father's presidency, Wade held powerful ministerial positions including being in charge of major infrastructure and energy projects. At one point he controlled up to a third of the national budget, leading to him being dubbed \"the minister of the earth and the sky\".Wade, 44, denies the charges, and this week several dozen supporters staged a demonstration as he appeared in court. The former ruling Senegalese Democratic party (PDS) has accused Sall's regime of conducting a witch-hunt against the PDS hierarchy.Bachirou Diawara, Wade's former chief of staff, said: \"The Senegalese are witnesses that [the prosecutors] are unable to provide evidence of the guilt of our brother Karim Wade. It is stubbornness, nothing more, nothing less.\" He called for human rights organisations to \"restore justice and the rule of law in the country\".", "tags": ["Senegal", "Monaco", "Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Senegal ex-president's son paid \u00a3127m into Monaco bank accounts"},{"date": "2013-09-25T14:47:32Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Ed Miliband's assertion that the rising tide of economic fortune used to lift all boats, but now only seems to lift yachts, would certainly seem to be borne out by the Monaco Yacht Show. The show, which has just begun, boasts Europe's largest collection of superyachts. At the show the Labour leader would find that demand is once again surging for the ultimate billionaire's plaything, ranging from an entry-level 30 metre-long boat costing around \u00a310m, to gigantic vessels with 90-strong crews that are effectively private cruise liners.The UK superyacht industry \u2013 a superyacht is more than 24 metres long \u2013 has reported record revenues of \u00a3460m, up 4% on last year, as more of their traditional customers in the US, Russia and the Middle East place orders for these custom-built, floating palaces.In a survey of 138 companies in the superyacht industry, half reported an increased workload compared to a year ago, while only 19% \u2013 a smaller proportion than last year \u2013 said their workload had gone down.The companies, which include yacht builders, designers and legal firms, are also in their most upbeat mood since before the economic crash, with 69% rating their prospects for the year ahead as \"good or excellent\", compared with 51% last year.Tom Chant of Superyacht UK said the industry was in a buoyant mood, but profits had not yet returned to the 2007 pre-recession era.\"That was a particular bubble that has definitely burst.\" Current growth was more stable, he said. \"The people who are coming into the market do have the money, they are not borrowing on banks who have borrowed on other things. The buyers that are coming in are good solid buyers who are there for the long-term.\"The UK industry, which employs 3,550 people, has further room to grow. \"There are more yards that could build yachts, than there are yachts with orders,\" Chant added.The revival is supported by another industry survey from yachtmaker Camper & Nicholsons, which reported a 37% jump in yacht sales in the first half of the year to around 200 boats. However, the overall value of the market remained flat at $1bn (\u00a3620m), as industry figures are easily skewed by a few hyper-extravagant purchases.The biggest market for superyachts remains the US, followed by Russia and the Middle East. China's super-rich have yet to develop much of an interest, despite the recent sale of Sunseeker International to the country's Dalian Wanda group. In Monaco \"there is lots of talk about the potential of China, but it is just potential,\" said Chant.The downturn slowed yacht buyers' appetite for extra-large yachts, with demand for vessels greater than 50 metres falling in 2011 and 2012, according to Camper & Nicholsons. But there are signs that it may be returning.On the drawing board of the Hampshire-based firm Dubois are plans for a giant sloop, 101 metres long with a 125-metre mast that would dwarf both Big Ben's Elizabeth Tower and the Statue of Liberty.", "tags": ["Recession", "Economics", "Business", "Ed Miliband", "Monaco", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Luxury goods sector"], "title": "Superyacht makers at Monaco Yacht Show buoyant as demand grows"},{"date": "2013-09-13T16:25:31Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The son of Senegal's former president deposited more than \u00a3127m at a bank in Monaco while his father was in office, it has emerged.Authorities in Monaco said Karim Wade placed the money in accounts at the Julius Baer bank between 2002 and 2013. They are co-operating with Senegalese officials who are prosecuting Wade on charges of illicit enrichment following a months-long investigation into how he amassed a fortune of more than $1.3bn during the period when his father, Abdoulaye Wade, was president.Funds held in at least 24 active bank accounts have been linked to 50 companies that Wade is alleged to have used to siphon off state funds. This summer Wade's accounts at the French bank Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale were frozen at the request of Senegal's current president, Macky Sall, who vowed to clamp down on corruption after being elected last year.A widely despised figure during his father's presidency, Wade held powerful ministerial positions including being in charge of major infrastructure and energy projects. At one point he controlled up to a third of the national budget, leading to him being dubbed \"the minister of the earth and the sky\".Wade, 44, denies the charges, and this week several dozen supporters staged a demonstration as he appeared in court. The former ruling Senegalese Democratic party (PDS) has accused Sall's regime of conducting a witch-hunt against the PDS hierarchy.Bachirou Diawara, Wade's former chief of staff, said: \"The Senegalese are witnesses that [the prosecutors] are unable to provide evidence of the guilt of our brother Karim Wade. It is stubbornness, nothing more, nothing less.\" He called for human rights organisations to \"restore justice and the rule of law in the country\".", "tags": ["Senegal", "Monaco", "Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Senegal ex-president's son paid \u00a3127m into Monaco bank accounts"},{"date": "2013-07-18T15:18:20Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Why does anyone dream\u00a0about being a princess? Traditionally, they make the dullest of movie heroines: skipping around being sweet and innocent, falling victim to wicked stepmothers, waiting to be transformed by the magnificent attention of a handsome prince. In a sensible world, little girls would have birthday parties where they dress up as active, gutsy female role models \u2013 say, Ripley from Alien. What seven-year-old worth her salt wouldn't delight in seeing an alien pop out of a chest-shaped cake? By and\u00a0large, though, they don't get the option. From the moment they can focus on a screen, wall-to-wall princesses are sold hard to them by entertainment giant Disney, whose all-American values clearly do not extend to republicanism.This year will see two biopics of real princesses, aimed at a market that would, at the very least, appear to be grownup. In September, Naomi Watts will star as the late Princess of Wales in Diana. At the end of the year \u2013 just in time to qualify for next year's Oscars \u2013 Nicole Kidman will star as Grace Kelly in Grace of Monaco. Fans of films in which Australian actors play iconic blond princesses who died as a result of car accidents are set for a double bill. Meanwhile, for those who would rather watch the real thing, Grace Kelly\u00a0herself will be on cinema screens around the country from next week in a re-release of Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 mystery Dial M for Murder. Originally filmed in Natural Vision stereoscopic 3D, the film has now been converted to digital 3D.Grace of Monaco and Diana may be different takes on princess genre, which has been quietly evolving in recent years. Gradually, Disney princesses shifted from marshalling woodland creatures into domestic servitude to reading books and acting feisty. Lately they have upped their game, turning to archery (Brave), entrepreneurship (The Princess and the Frog) and defeating Hun warlords (Mulan). There are goth princesses (Snow White and the Huntsman), ogre\u00a0princesses (Shrek), and Disney princesses who spoof other Disney princesses (Enchanted). Why not real princesses?Yet the experience of many real princesses seems to have been less like a Disney fairytale, and closer to the sinister versions found in complete editions of Hans Christian Andersen or the Brothers Grimm. Reportedly, Grace of Monaco revolves around a \"crisis\" in her marriage to Prince Rainier III in the early 1960s. At that time, Monaco was in trouble with France over its tax policies, and public outcry prevented Grace from taking up the starring role in Hitchcock's Marnie. The role went to Tippi Hedren; Grace never appeared onscreen again. By the time she was in her 40s and living largely apart from her husband, her fantasies were no longer about being a princess. She told friends that she dreamed of becoming a bag lady and wandering the streets of Paris.Diana, meanwhile, is set during the last two years of Princess Diana's life. The real Diana is venerated as a\u00a0saint in some quarters of the British press, who are doubtless waiting to see if the film is nice about her (in which case they will like it) or nasty (in\u00a0which case they won't). The minute-long teaser trailer touches on familiar points: fame, landmines, hunky heart surgeon, big shiny yacht, intrusive paparazzi. The director, Oliver Hirschbiegel, is best known for Downfall, which recounts the last days of a rather different historical figure: Adolf Hitler.The British royals have not commented on the Diana movie, but the Mon\u00e9gasque royal family \u2013 now headed by Albert II, Rainier and Grace's son \u2013 have weighed in on the Grace one. A statement claimed the film\u00a0\"contains important historical inaccuracies as well as scenes of pure fiction\" and has been \"pointlessly glamorised\".Since the whole purpose of princesses is to disburse glamour (especially when that word is imbued with its old meaning of magic or enchantment), one wonders what happens if glamorising them becomes pointless. The family's objection is a reminder, though, of how completely royals are obliged to surrender their privacy. Monarchy, wrote Hilaire Belloc in 1938, \"imperils the soul of the Monarch \u2026 His individual being, the man himself, ceases to be.\"The private lives of royals have always been public property, including their most intimate functions. Long before they were photographed playing strip-billiards, royals were required to give birth in front of crowds of spectators, or defecate with\u00a0the assistance of a lucky member of the gentry who was designated Groom of the Stool. For some reason, these details have not yet ended up in a Disney princess movie.It will be interesting to see what Grace of Monaco and Diana make of their real princess subjects. A major rewrite would have to be done on either life to make it a great advert for marrying a prince, handsome or otherwise. Their stories are about being careful what you wish for: the not-so-glittering reality behind once upon a dream. Perhaps, having had princess fantasies rammed down their throats from childhood, some women will find it reassuring \u2013 even gratifying \u2013 to see that \"happily ever after\" has been substantially oversold. Anyone for a slice of Alien cake?\u2022 Dial M for Murder is re-released in the UK on 26 July, Diana is released on 20 September and Grace of Monaco on 10 January 2014.", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Film", "Culture", "Nicole Kidman", "Diana", " Princess of Wales", "Alfred Hitchcock", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Monaco", "Europe", "World news", "Diana"], "title": "Princesses for grownups: Diana and Grace of Monaco"},{"date": "2013-10-21T08:02:03Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The director of an Oscar-tipped biopic which stars Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly has attacked plans by Harvey Weinstein to edit the film as a \"pile of shit\".Speaking to French newspaper Liberation in comments translated by the Hollywood Reporter, Olivier Dahan stridently defended his right to release Grace of Monaco, which details a period in Kelly's marriage to Rainier III, prince of the tiny European state, in its original form. Weinstein, who is famed for his cutting room proclivities, recently delayed the film's debut in cinemas on the basis that it is not yet ready to be viewed.The film, about Kelly's intervention in a row between Rainier and France's president Charles De Gaulle, had been tipped for a tilt at the 2014 Oscars, but will now miss the deadline for the annual awards ceremony. Dahan said there was no need for a delay because his movie is already finished and does not need recutting.\"The film that I am in the process of finishing is complicated to finalise, although actually, for me, it is finished,\" Dahan told Liberation. \"What's complicated at the moment is ensuring that you, the critics, can review my version of the film and not that of somebody else. It's not over yet. I haven't given up.\"Dahan said he was being blackmailed by Weinstein into signing off on a new edit which did not represent his original vision. \"It's right to struggle, but when you confront an American distributor like Weinstein, not to name names, there is not much you can do,\" the director said. \"Either you say 'Go figure it out with your pile of shit' or you brace yourself so the blackmail isn't as violent \u2026 If I don't sign, that's where the out-and-out blackmail starts, but I could go that far. There are two versions of the film for now: mine and his \u2026 which I find catastrophic.\"He added: \"It's got hardly anything to do with the film. It's only about the money, the release strategy, millions of dollars and stuff like that. It's got nothing to do with cinema. I mean, of course it's about cinema, but the business side. They want a commercial film smelling of daisies, taking out anything that exceeds that which is too abrupt, everything that makes it cinematic and breathe with life. A lot of things are missing.\"Grace of Monaco, which also stars Frank Langella, Parker Posey, Derek Jacobi, Paz Vega and Tim Roth, is currently due for release in March 2014, having been delayed from November by The Weinstein Company, which is co-owned by Bob and Harvey Weinstein. Shot in France, Italy and Monaco last Autumn, the film focuses on a period in 1962 when De Gaulle established an economic blockade on the small principality over its status as a tax haven.Weinstein, a renowned Oscars campaigner who oversaw successful runs for The Artist and The King's Speech in recent years, has labelled the film a \"fantastic, and very glamorous\" movie that \"could be bigger\" than Marilyn Monroe biopic My Week with Marilyn. But he also told the Hollywood Reporter last month: \"The score wasn't ready, a lot of things weren't ready.\"\u2022\u00a0More on Diana\u2022\u00a0More on Grace of Monaco\u2022\u00a0Alex von Tunzelmann: Princesses for grownups \u2013 Diana and Grace of Monaco\u2022 Grace of Monaco: watch Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly in world exclusive trailer for new biopic", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Nicole Kidman", "Harvey Weinstein", "Film", "Culture", "Oscars", "Awards and prizes", "Oscars 2014", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Grace of Monaco director calls Harvey Weinstein re-edit a 'pile of shit'"},{"date": "2013-10-21T08:02:03Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The director of an Oscar-tipped biopic which stars Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly has attacked plans by Harvey Weinstein to edit the film as a \"pile of shit\".Speaking to French newspaper Liberation in comments translated by the Hollywood Reporter, Olivier Dahan stridently defended his right to release Grace of Monaco, which details a period in Kelly's marriage to Rainier III, prince of the tiny European state, in its original form. Weinstein, who is famed for his cutting room proclivities, recently delayed the film's debut in cinemas on the basis that it is not yet ready to be viewed.The film, about Kelly's intervention in a row between Rainier and France's president Charles De Gaulle, had been tipped for a tilt at the 2014 Oscars, but will now miss the deadline for the annual awards ceremony. Dahan said there was no need for a delay because his movie is already finished and does not need recutting.\"The film that I am in the process of finishing is complicated to finalise, although actually, for me, it is finished,\" Dahan told Liberation. \"What's complicated at the moment is ensuring that you, the critics, can review my version of the film and not that of somebody else. It's not over yet. I haven't given up.\"Dahan said he was being blackmailed by Weinstein into signing off on a new edit which did not represent his original vision. \"It's right to struggle, but when you confront an American distributor like Weinstein, not to name names, there is not much you can do,\" the director said. \"Either you say 'Go figure it out with your pile of shit' or you brace yourself so the blackmail isn't as violent \u2026 If I don't sign, that's where the out-and-out blackmail starts, but I could go that far. There are two versions of the film for now: mine and his \u2026 which I find catastrophic.\"He added: \"It's got hardly anything to do with the film. It's only about the money, the release strategy, millions of dollars and stuff like that. It's got nothing to do with cinema. I mean, of course it's about cinema, but the business side. They want a commercial film smelling of daisies, taking out anything that exceeds that which is too abrupt, everything that makes it cinematic and breathe with life. A lot of things are missing.\"Grace of Monaco, which also stars Frank Langella, Parker Posey, Derek Jacobi, Paz Vega and Tim Roth, is currently due for release in March 2014, having been delayed from November by The Weinstein Company, which is co-owned by Bob and Harvey Weinstein. Shot in France, Italy and Monaco last Autumn, the film focuses on a period in 1962 when De Gaulle established an economic blockade on the small principality over its status as a tax haven.Weinstein, a renowned Oscars campaigner who oversaw successful runs for The Artist and The King's Speech in recent years, has labelled the film a \"fantastic, and very glamorous\" movie that \"could be bigger\" than Marilyn Monroe biopic My Week with Marilyn. But he also told the Hollywood Reporter last month: \"The score wasn't ready, a lot of things weren't ready.\"\u2022\u00a0More on Diana\u2022\u00a0More on Grace of Monaco\u2022\u00a0Alex von Tunzelmann: Princesses for grownups \u2013 Diana and Grace of Monaco\u2022 Grace of Monaco: watch Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly in world exclusive trailer for new biopic", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Nicole Kidman", "Harvey Weinstein", "Film", "Culture", "Oscars", "Awards and prizes", "Oscars 2014", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Grace of Monaco director calls Harvey Weinstein re-edit a 'pile of shit'"},{"date": "2013-10-25T19:06:29Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It was the awards season that looked too good to be true. And so, indeed, it proved. Over the past few weeks, three of the most eagerly anticipated films scheduled for release in coming months have had their release dates abruptly moved back, thereby ruling them out of the running for the 2014 Oscars.Audiences will now have to wait until later next year for their first look at George Clooney's second world war art heist caper The Monuments Men, as well as Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly in biopic Grace of Monaco and Steve Carell as reclusive philanthropist-turned-killer John du Pont in Foxcatcher.Reasons and theories for the delays have abounded, with Clooney and Foxcatcher director Bennett Miller citing late-running post-production, and the director of Grace of Monaco going public over his editing spat with super-producer Harvey Weinstein.But writing in the Hollywood Reporter this week, awards pundit Scott Feinberg fuelled suspicion that high-calibre contenders were \"dropping like flies\" precisely because it was shaping up to be such a top-quality year. \"Some distributors,\" he wrote, \"would rather hold their films until the next cycle in the hope they will stand a better chance of getting noticed.\"And with the likes of Gravity and 12\u00a0Years a Slave coming out of Venice and Toronto so heavily tipped for glory, it is hard to blame studios for seeking a more level playing field.The common factor among the three exiting titles is their real-life origins. But that all are based on fact does not make them unusual among the year's Oscar contenders, of which a good 50% take their cues from real life \u2013 including Captain Phillips, The Fifth Estate, Saving Mr Banks, 12 Years a Slave, American Hustle, The Wolf of Wall Street, The Dallas Buyers Club, The Invisible Woman, The Butler, Rush and Philomena.For such films, the odds of converting probable nominations into solid awards is also higher than for their fictional counterparts. While audiences may not be quite so keen \u2013 as the disappointing box office for Diana and The Fifth Estate suggest \u2013 the industry likes to confer its top honours on movies that appear to in turn bolster cinema's credibility.Guy Lodge, who writes for awards site In Contention, says that 60% of best actor and actress Oscar winners in the last decade have won for biopics, compared with 20% the previous decade.Other than the self-perpetuating favour of awards bodies, why the surge in big screen stories that open with the words \"based on a true story\"? One industry insider ascribes it to the death of the indie sector, which nourished original stories, and whose best practitioners have largely migrated to TV. \"What happens now is that films are made by committee, so when executives are searching around the new material they reach for the past.\"With blockbusters, this means more sequels. If you are chasing awards gold, you opt for the best-selling nonfiction book or \u2013 yet cheaper \u2013 magazine article.But what the success of Argo and Lincoln last year and The King's Speech and The Social Network in 2011 have spawned is such a glut of \"based on real life\" glory-chasing stories that the trio of delayed films will at least try their luck in a less saturated market.And those who are left are rumoured to be turning to underhand methods to hobble their competitors.A report last week suggested studios are hiring academics to act as \"history assassins\" to cast aspersion on rival studios' movies. One Harvard professor says he was paid $10,000 (\u00a36,200) by an Oscar marketing consultant to spot factual errors that would then be seeded out to influential blogs.Alex von Tunzelmann, a historian who writes a weekly column rating the accuracy of films based on true events, said: \"It's got too cloak and dagger this year. You start wondering what the Oscars are about when it comes to this very intense, brutal lobbying. Surely what people care about is the best film, not the one with the best campaign?\"There is an upside of course: the more films are worried about being flamed, the more they will heed the facts. \"And as any history teacher who's sat through Braveheart will know, that's something to welcome.\"Reports suggest punters are also increasingly interested in accuracy \u2013 in part because of the rise of smartphone use to check facts after (or even during) a screening, and because media interest has grown in tandem with the awards dominance of such movies.Articles questioning just how heroic Captain Phillips really was, or whether or not PL\u00a0Travers really hated cartoon penguins as much as Saving Mr Banks suggests, have done the rounds over recent weeks.The US release of The Butler \u2013 based on the account of a real-life White House flunky \u2013 prompted a confetti of cuttings in which official presidential biographers carped about anachronisms and overstatement.Even Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave, based on the memoir of Solomon Northup, who was kidnapped and sold into slavery in 1841, has not proved immune. Although McQueen's film is strenuously faithful to the book \u2013 and even tones down the drama \u2013 some have suggested the ghostwriter to whom Northup originally spoke may have amplified the horrors in the service of anti-slavery propaganda.Such attacks look unlikely to dent its apparently unstoppable momentum. They could even benefit the film: to quibble over the extent of abuse meted out by deep south slavers may look less like valid critique than churlish nitpicking.For Lodge, too, the pre-eminence of that film \u2013 and deep space saga Gravity \u2013 also has much to do with why other Oscar hopefuls have chosen to opt out.\"Perhaps if 12 Years a Slave and Gravity hadn't emerged from the September festival run with such deafening, oxygen-consuming buzz, a greater range of films might envision a path to awards glory.\"Of the major films moving to 2014, I suspect only Foxcatcher \u2013 for which expectations remain high \u2013 has done so to give itself a better shot at Oscar glory. Others are looking to avoid the 'Oscar-bait' label, so as to avoid disappointment or embarrassment if and when they turn out to be something else.\"", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Foxcatcher", "The Monuments Men", "Oscars 2014", "Oscars", "Awards and prizes", "Film", "George Clooney", "Nicole Kidman", "Steve Carell", "US news", "World news", "Film industry"], "title": "Hollywood makes fans wait as major films pulled from crowded Oscars field"},{"date": "2013-10-21T08:02:03Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The director of an Oscar-tipped biopic which stars Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly has attacked plans by Harvey Weinstein to edit the film as a \"pile of shit\".Speaking to French newspaper Liberation in comments translated by the Hollywood Reporter, Olivier Dahan stridently defended his right to release Grace of Monaco, which details a period in Kelly's marriage to Rainier III, prince of the tiny European state, in its original form. Weinstein, who is famed for his cutting room proclivities, recently delayed the film's debut in cinemas on the basis that it is not yet ready to be viewed.The film, about Kelly's intervention in a row between Rainier and France's president Charles De Gaulle, had been tipped for a tilt at the 2014 Oscars, but will now miss the deadline for the annual awards ceremony. Dahan said there was no need for a delay because his movie is already finished and does not need recutting.\"The film that I am in the process of finishing is complicated to finalise, although actually, for me, it is finished,\" Dahan told Liberation. \"What's complicated at the moment is ensuring that you, the critics, can review my version of the film and not that of somebody else. It's not over yet. I haven't given up.\"Dahan said he was being blackmailed by Weinstein into signing off on a new edit which did not represent his original vision. \"It's right to struggle, but when you confront an American distributor like Weinstein, not to name names, there is not much you can do,\" the director said. \"Either you say 'Go figure it out with your pile of shit' or you brace yourself so the blackmail isn't as violent \u2026 If I don't sign, that's where the out-and-out blackmail starts, but I could go that far. There are two versions of the film for now: mine and his \u2026 which I find catastrophic.\"He added: \"It's got hardly anything to do with the film. It's only about the money, the release strategy, millions of dollars and stuff like that. It's got nothing to do with cinema. I mean, of course it's about cinema, but the business side. They want a commercial film smelling of daisies, taking out anything that exceeds that which is too abrupt, everything that makes it cinematic and breathe with life. A lot of things are missing.\"Grace of Monaco, which also stars Frank Langella, Parker Posey, Derek Jacobi, Paz Vega and Tim Roth, is currently due for release in March 2014, having been delayed from November by The Weinstein Company, which is co-owned by Bob and Harvey Weinstein. Shot in France, Italy and Monaco last Autumn, the film focuses on a period in 1962 when De Gaulle established an economic blockade on the small principality over its status as a tax haven.Weinstein, a renowned Oscars campaigner who oversaw successful runs for The Artist and The King's Speech in recent years, has labelled the film a \"fantastic, and very glamorous\" movie that \"could be bigger\" than Marilyn Monroe biopic My Week with Marilyn. But he also told the Hollywood Reporter last month: \"The score wasn't ready, a lot of things weren't ready.\"\u2022\u00a0More on Diana\u2022\u00a0More on Grace of Monaco\u2022\u00a0Alex von Tunzelmann: Princesses for grownups \u2013 Diana and Grace of Monaco\u2022 Grace of Monaco: watch Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly in world exclusive trailer for new biopic", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Nicole Kidman", "Harvey Weinstein", "Film", "Culture", "Oscars", "Awards and prizes", "Oscars 2014", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Grace of Monaco director calls Harvey Weinstein re-edit a 'pile of shit'"},{"date": "2013-10-25T19:06:29Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "It was the awards season that looked too good to be true. And so, indeed, it proved. Over the past few weeks, three of the most eagerly anticipated films scheduled for release in coming months have had their release dates abruptly moved back, thereby ruling them out of the running for the 2014 Oscars.Audiences will now have to wait until later next year for their first look at George Clooney's second world war art heist caper The Monuments Men, as well as Nicole Kidman as Grace Kelly in biopic Grace of Monaco and Steve Carell as reclusive philanthropist-turned-killer John du Pont in Foxcatcher.Reasons and theories for the delays have abounded, with Clooney and Foxcatcher director Bennett Miller citing late-running post-production, and the director of Grace of Monaco going public over his editing spat with super-producer Harvey Weinstein.But writing in the Hollywood Reporter this week, awards pundit Scott Feinberg fuelled suspicion that high-calibre contenders were \"dropping like flies\" precisely because it was shaping up to be such a top-quality year. \"Some distributors,\" he wrote, \"would rather hold their films until the next cycle in the hope they will stand a better chance of getting noticed.\"And with the likes of Gravity and 12\u00a0Years a Slave coming out of Venice and Toronto so heavily tipped for glory, it is hard to blame studios for seeking a more level playing field.The common factor among the three exiting titles is their real-life origins. But that all are based on fact does not make them unusual among the year's Oscar contenders, of which a good 50% take their cues from real life \u2013 including Captain Phillips, The Fifth Estate, Saving Mr Banks, 12 Years a Slave, American Hustle, The Wolf of Wall Street, The Dallas Buyers Club, The Invisible Woman, The Butler, Rush and Philomena.For such films, the odds of converting probable nominations into solid awards is also higher than for their fictional counterparts. While audiences may not be quite so keen \u2013 as the disappointing box office for Diana and The Fifth Estate suggest \u2013 the industry likes to confer its top honours on movies that appear to in turn bolster cinema's credibility.Guy Lodge, who writes for awards site In Contention, says that 60% of best actor and actress Oscar winners in the last decade have won for biopics, compared with 20% the previous decade.Other than the self-perpetuating favour of awards bodies, why the surge in big screen stories that open with the words \"based on a true story\"? One industry insider ascribes it to the death of the indie sector, which nourished original stories, and whose best practitioners have largely migrated to TV. \"What happens now is that films are made by committee, so when executives are searching around the new material they reach for the past.\"With blockbusters, this means more sequels. If you are chasing awards gold, you opt for the best-selling nonfiction book or \u2013 yet cheaper \u2013 magazine article.But what the success of Argo and Lincoln last year and The King's Speech and The Social Network in 2011 have spawned is such a glut of \"based on real life\" glory-chasing stories that the trio of delayed films will at least try their luck in a less saturated market.And those who are left are rumoured to be turning to underhand methods to hobble their competitors.A report last week suggested studios are hiring academics to act as \"history assassins\" to cast aspersion on rival studios' movies. One Harvard professor says he was paid $10,000 (\u00a36,200) by an Oscar marketing consultant to spot factual errors that would then be seeded out to influential blogs.Alex von Tunzelmann, a historian who writes a weekly column rating the accuracy of films based on true events, said: \"It's got too cloak and dagger this year. You start wondering what the Oscars are about when it comes to this very intense, brutal lobbying. Surely what people care about is the best film, not the one with the best campaign?\"There is an upside of course: the more films are worried about being flamed, the more they will heed the facts. \"And as any history teacher who's sat through Braveheart will know, that's something to welcome.\"Reports suggest punters are also increasingly interested in accuracy \u2013 in part because of the rise of smartphone use to check facts after (or even during) a screening, and because media interest has grown in tandem with the awards dominance of such movies.Articles questioning just how heroic Captain Phillips really was, or whether or not PL\u00a0Travers really hated cartoon penguins as much as Saving Mr Banks suggests, have done the rounds over recent weeks.The US release of The Butler \u2013 based on the account of a real-life White House flunky \u2013 prompted a confetti of cuttings in which official presidential biographers carped about anachronisms and overstatement.Even Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave, based on the memoir of Solomon Northup, who was kidnapped and sold into slavery in 1841, has not proved immune. Although McQueen's film is strenuously faithful to the book \u2013 and even tones down the drama \u2013 some have suggested the ghostwriter to whom Northup originally spoke may have amplified the horrors in the service of anti-slavery propaganda.Such attacks look unlikely to dent its apparently unstoppable momentum. They could even benefit the film: to quibble over the extent of abuse meted out by deep south slavers may look less like valid critique than churlish nitpicking.For Lodge, too, the pre-eminence of that film \u2013 and deep space saga Gravity \u2013 also has much to do with why other Oscar hopefuls have chosen to opt out.\"Perhaps if 12 Years a Slave and Gravity hadn't emerged from the September festival run with such deafening, oxygen-consuming buzz, a greater range of films might envision a path to awards glory.\"Of the major films moving to 2014, I suspect only Foxcatcher \u2013 for which expectations remain high \u2013 has done so to give itself a better shot at Oscar glory. Others are looking to avoid the 'Oscar-bait' label, so as to avoid disappointment or embarrassment if and when they turn out to be something else.\"", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Foxcatcher", "The Monuments Men", "Oscars 2014", "Oscars", "Awards and prizes", "Film", "George Clooney", "Nicole Kidman", "Steve Carell", "US news", "World news", "Film industry"], "title": "Hollywood makes fans wait as major films pulled from crowded Oscars field"},{"date": "2013-10-11T13:08:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Nicole Kidman is planning to produce and star in a film adaptation of The Silent Wife, the bestselling novel about a disintegrating marriage that drives a woman to murder.According to Deadline, Kidman's own company, Blossom Films, have optioned the novel, which would appear to offer a leading role tailor made for Kidman. Described in the Guardian as \"ultimately, a frighteningly possible portrait of a marriage, of how things can slip so far without either party realising\", The Silent Wife revolves around a wealthy woman who apparently overlooks her husband's infidelities. The Silent Wife, whose writer ASA Harrison died shortly before publication, was marketed heavily on its apparent similarity to another successful thriller, Gillian Flynn's Gone Girl, which is itself on its way to the screen, with David Fincher directing Rosamund Pike in the lead role of Amy.", "tags": ["Nicole Kidman", "Film", "Thriller", "Film adaptations", "Drama", "Books", "Culture", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Nicole Kidman gets hitched to The Silent Wife"},{"date": "2014-01-24T15:04:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Cannes film festival has announced that Grace of Monaco will be the opening film for its 2014 edition.As a biopic of the intensely glamorous princess of the nearby principality who was also a legendary movie star, the film has obvious appeal to the Cannes organisers; it also stars Cannes favourite Nicole Kidman and is directed by Olivier Dahan, the French film-maker behind the popular Edith Piaf biopic La Vie en Rose.However, the announcement comes at an unlikely moment - just as it has emerged that the film's US distributor, the Weinstein Company, have cancelled plans for its release in a row over editing.Grace of Monaco was due for a March release in the US, but Dahan openly disagreed with changes demanded by the company, which is owned by Harvey and Bob Weinstein, labelling the Weinsteins' version \"a pile of shit\". However, it appears the director has the final word on any re-edit, and has refused to budge, hence the decision to pull the film from the US release schedules.However, the delay has meant the film has become even more attractive to Cannes, who prefer not to programme films that have already been released in overseas territories, and their Grace of Monaco screening can now be considered a world premiere.The Cannes film festival runs from 14-25 May 2014.\u2022 Grace of Monaco director calls Harvey Weinstein re-edit a 'pile of shit'", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Cannes 2014", "Film", "Cannes film festival", "Nicole Kidman", "Monaco", "World news", "France", "US news", "Harvey Weinstein", "Culture", "Festivals"], "title": "Grace of Monaco to open Cannes 2014"},{"date": "2014-06-23T22:33:45Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "French police are reported to have arrested the daughter of a Monaco heiress fatally injured in a shooting in May. Officers picked up 19 suspects on Monday in raids in Nice and Marseille in the south of France and Rennes in the west, as part of their inquiry into the assassination of the wealthy property owner H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor, a friend of the principality's royal family.Among those believed arrested is the murdered woman's daughter, Sylvia, and her businessman son-in-law. A possible contract killing is among the theories being investigated.Pastor, 77, so well known in Monaco that she was nicknamed \"the vice-princess\", was shot on 6 May in what police described as an ambush as she left a hospital in Nice where she had been visiting her son Gildo, who had suffered a stroke.In the attack, a gunman wielding a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun opened fire twice on Pastor's Lancia Voyager car, injuring her and her chauffeur, Mohamed Darwich, 64. Darwich died four days later. Pastor was taken to hospital with face, neck, chest and abdomen injuries, and died a fortnight after the attack.CCTV images showed the gunman running off with a second man. The car continued a further 20 metres before crashing into a parked vehicle and coming to a halt.Afterwards a French judge opened an official inquiry into \"attempted murder and assassination by an organised group\". Police said they were looking into whether the attack had been carried out by Italian crime gangs.Pastor was the sister of Michel Pastor, a former chairman of Monaco football club who died in February. She was described by shocked friends as a \"model of wisdom and discretion\".The Pastor dynasty has a huge portfolio of property and land in Monaco estimated at 50,000 sq metres established by Pastor's grandfather, Jean-Baptiste, an impoverished Italian stonemason from Liguria, who arrived in Monaco in the 19th century.After constructing Monaco's first football stadium, Pastor's was taken over by his son Gildo who snapped up Mediterranean seafront real estate at bargain prices after the second world war. When Gildo died in 1990 his three children, H\u00e9l\u00e8ne and her late brothers, Michel and Victor, inherited his fortune.There are three branches of the Pastor family said to own between them as many as 3,000-4,000 flats of a total of 20,000 in the 0.8 square mile (2 sq km) principality. Their property is worth an estimated \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) .After the attack, Monaco's ruler Prince Albert said he was \"deeply upset\" and offered the Pastor family his \"very deep support\".Police, who first described the attack on Pastor's car as an \"ambush\" and an \"attempted execution\", admitted they had no idea whether it was Pastor or her chauffeur who was the target, and said the choice of weapons did not suggest a professional assassin or the Mafia.", "tags": ["Europe", "Monaco", "France", "World news"], "title": "French police arrest daughter of assassinated Monaco heiress"},{"date": "2014-06-23T22:33:45Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "French police are reported to have arrested the daughter of a Monaco heiress fatally injured in a shooting in May. Officers picked up 19 suspects on Monday in raids in Nice and Marseille in the south of France and Rennes in the west, as part of their inquiry into the assassination of the wealthy property owner H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor, a friend of the principality's royal family.Among those believed arrested is the murdered woman's daughter, Sylvia, and her businessman son-in-law. A possible contract killing is among the theories being investigated.Pastor, 77, so well known in Monaco that she was nicknamed \"the vice-princess\", was shot on 6 May in what police described as an ambush as she left a hospital in Nice where she had been visiting her son Gildo, who had suffered a stroke.In the attack, a gunman wielding a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun opened fire twice on Pastor's Lancia Voyager car, injuring her and her chauffeur, Mohamed Darwich, 64. Darwich died four days later. Pastor was taken to hospital with face, neck, chest and abdomen injuries, and died a fortnight after the attack.CCTV images showed the gunman running off with a second man. The car continued a further 20 metres before crashing into a parked vehicle and coming to a halt.Afterwards a French judge opened an official inquiry into \"attempted murder and assassination by an organised group\". Police said they were looking into whether the attack had been carried out by Italian crime gangs.Pastor was the sister of Michel Pastor, a former chairman of Monaco football club who died in February. She was described by shocked friends as a \"model of wisdom and discretion\".The Pastor dynasty has a huge portfolio of property and land in Monaco estimated at 50,000 sq metres established by Pastor's grandfather, Jean-Baptiste, an impoverished Italian stonemason from Liguria, who arrived in Monaco in the 19th century.After constructing Monaco's first football stadium, Pastor's was taken over by his son Gildo who snapped up Mediterranean seafront real estate at bargain prices after the second world war. When Gildo died in 1990 his three children, H\u00e9l\u00e8ne and her late brothers, Michel and Victor, inherited his fortune.There are three branches of the Pastor family said to own between them as many as 3,000-4,000 flats of a total of 20,000 in the 0.8 square mile (2 sq km) principality. Their property is worth an estimated \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) .After the attack, Monaco's ruler Prince Albert said he was \"deeply upset\" and offered the Pastor family his \"very deep support\".Police, who first described the attack on Pastor's car as an \"ambush\" and an \"attempted execution\", admitted they had no idea whether it was Pastor or her chauffeur who was the target, and said the choice of weapons did not suggest a professional assassin or the Mafia.", "tags": ["Europe", "Monaco", "France", "World news"], "title": "French police arrest daughter of assassinated Monaco heiress"},{"date": "2014-06-27T17:19:47Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As in the best crime thrillers, detectives hunting the killers who gunned down wealthy Riviera property magnate H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor discovered the devil was in the detail \u2013 in this case the shower gel.It was the clue left in a hotel room that led police to Wojciech Janowski, Poland's honorary consul to Monaco and the dead woman's son-in-law, who appeared before a judge on Friday accused of ordering her murder.Janowski, 64, a Cambridge-educated Polish businessman who had lived with Pastor's daughter Sylvia for 28 years \u2013 the couple had never married \u2013 confessed to being \"implicated\" in the killing of Pastor and her chauffeur. Sylvia Pastor, 53, who was arrested at the same time but later \"totally exonerated\", was said to be in a state of shock. Six others accused of involvement in the murder in May are being held in police custody.Prosecutors say Janowski admitted giving his sporting coach \u20ac200,000 \"as well as presents including holidays and a car\" to organise the killing that he had been planning for \"a long time\".\"Janowski felt rejected by the rest of the Pastor family in general and by H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor in particular. Janowski says he wanted to put an end to his wife's suffering at the hands of her mother, but Sylvia Pastor contests this entirely,\" the public prosecutor in Marseille, Brice Robin, told a press conference.Two men, carrying a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun, ambushed Pastor's Lancia Voyager car on 6 May as she left a Nice hospital where her son Gildo, 47, was recovering from a stroke. After firing twice into the vehicle and checking that both Pastor, 77, and her chauffeur of 15 years, Egyptian-born Mohamed Darwish, 64, had been hit, the men ran off.Darwish died in hospital after four days and Pastor 15 days later. Before succumbing to her injuries, she told police she had no idea who might want her dead.Robin said Janowski had obtained \u20ac8.4m from H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor via her daughter in the past year. The prosecutor said he had no idea where that money had gone but it was not in Janowski's bank account.He said Janowski had specified that he wanted Darwish dead \"as a diversion and to muddle things up and make people question who was the real target\" of the attack.The cold-blooded assassination of Pastor, who boasted an estimated \u20ac20bn property empire in Monaco established by her grandfather, an immigrant Italian stonemason, shocked the principality where she was known as the \"princess\" and had links with the royal family.Using images from video cameras, phone taps and satellite information from the suspects' mobile phones, police traced the two men who attacked Pastor to a \u20ac90 hotel room in Nice that they had rented and taken a shower in before carrying out the killing. The turning point in the inquiry was the discovery of DNA from one of the suspects in shower gel in the room.Police later found a sports bag containing the guns used in the attack and a \"large sum of money\".Detectives arrested Janowski for questioning about certain bank transactions on his account after discovering he had withdrawn \u20ac250,000 from an offshore account in Dubai.Pastor's daughter Sylvia, known as \"Sisi\", and son Gildo received generous allowances reported to be up to \u20ac500,000 a month and lived in luxury apartments owned by their mother.Janowski, the Polish honorary consul in Monaco since 2007, is known in the principality for his charity work, particularly with the organisation Monaco Against Autism (MONAA), which he co-founded and which boasts Princess Charlene of Monaco as its honorary president.He was given the National Order of Merit of the French Republic by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2010 for his charity work and has a master's degree in economics. In the past he ran a chain of hotels and casinos in the principality.In the end, the killing of H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor and her chauffeur turned out to be as the French press had suggested from the beginning \u2013 a \"crime crapuleux\", a criminal act sparked by a motive as old as the Monaco hills: money.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Monaco billionaire's son-in-law accused of ordering her murder"},{"date": "2014-06-23T22:33:45Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "French police are reported to have arrested the daughter of a Monaco heiress fatally injured in a shooting in May. Officers picked up 19 suspects on Monday in raids in Nice and Marseille in the south of France and Rennes in the west, as part of their inquiry into the assassination of the wealthy property owner H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor, a friend of the principality's royal family.Among those believed arrested is the murdered woman's daughter, Sylvia, and her businessman son-in-law. A possible contract killing is among the theories being investigated.Pastor, 77, so well known in Monaco that she was nicknamed \"the vice-princess\", was shot on 6 May in what police described as an ambush as she left a hospital in Nice where she had been visiting her son Gildo, who had suffered a stroke.In the attack, a gunman wielding a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun opened fire twice on Pastor's Lancia Voyager car, injuring her and her chauffeur, Mohamed Darwich, 64. Darwich died four days later. Pastor was taken to hospital with face, neck, chest and abdomen injuries, and died a fortnight after the attack.CCTV images showed the gunman running off with a second man. The car continued a further 20 metres before crashing into a parked vehicle and coming to a halt.Afterwards a French judge opened an official inquiry into \"attempted murder and assassination by an organised group\". Police said they were looking into whether the attack had been carried out by Italian crime gangs.Pastor was the sister of Michel Pastor, a former chairman of Monaco football club who died in February. She was described by shocked friends as a \"model of wisdom and discretion\".The Pastor dynasty has a huge portfolio of property and land in Monaco estimated at 50,000 sq metres established by Pastor's grandfather, Jean-Baptiste, an impoverished Italian stonemason from Liguria, who arrived in Monaco in the 19th century.After constructing Monaco's first football stadium, Pastor's was taken over by his son Gildo who snapped up Mediterranean seafront real estate at bargain prices after the second world war. When Gildo died in 1990 his three children, H\u00e9l\u00e8ne and her late brothers, Michel and Victor, inherited his fortune.There are three branches of the Pastor family said to own between them as many as 3,000-4,000 flats of a total of 20,000 in the 0.8 square mile (2 sq km) principality. Their property is worth an estimated \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) .After the attack, Monaco's ruler Prince Albert said he was \"deeply upset\" and offered the Pastor family his \"very deep support\".Police, who first described the attack on Pastor's car as an \"ambush\" and an \"attempted execution\", admitted they had no idea whether it was Pastor or her chauffeur who was the target, and said the choice of weapons did not suggest a professional assassin or the Mafia.", "tags": ["Europe", "Monaco", "France", "World news"], "title": "French police arrest daughter of assassinated Monaco heiress"},{"date": "2014-06-27T17:19:47Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As in the best crime thrillers, detectives hunting the killers who gunned down wealthy Riviera property magnate H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor discovered the devil was in the detail \u2013 in this case the shower gel.It was the clue left in a hotel room that led police to Wojciech Janowski, Poland's honorary consul to Monaco and the dead woman's son-in-law, who appeared before a judge on Friday accused of ordering her murder.Janowski, 64, a Cambridge-educated Polish businessman who had lived with Pastor's daughter Sylvia for 28 years \u2013 the couple had never married \u2013 confessed to being \"implicated\" in the killing of Pastor and her chauffeur. Sylvia Pastor, 53, who was arrested at the same time but later \"totally exonerated\", was said to be in a state of shock. Six others accused of involvement in the murder in May are being held in police custody.Prosecutors say Janowski admitted giving his sporting coach \u20ac200,000 \"as well as presents including holidays and a car\" to organise the killing that he had been planning for \"a long time\".\"Janowski felt rejected by the rest of the Pastor family in general and by H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor in particular. Janowski says he wanted to put an end to his wife's suffering at the hands of her mother, but Sylvia Pastor contests this entirely,\" the public prosecutor in Marseille, Brice Robin, told a press conference.Two men, carrying a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun, ambushed Pastor's Lancia Voyager car on 6 May as she left a Nice hospital where her son Gildo, 47, was recovering from a stroke. After firing twice into the vehicle and checking that both Pastor, 77, and her chauffeur of 15 years, Egyptian-born Mohamed Darwish, 64, had been hit, the men ran off.Darwish died in hospital after four days and Pastor 15 days later. Before succumbing to her injuries, she told police she had no idea who might want her dead.Robin said Janowski had obtained \u20ac8.4m from H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor via her daughter in the past year. The prosecutor said he had no idea where that money had gone but it was not in Janowski's bank account.He said Janowski had specified that he wanted Darwish dead \"as a diversion and to muddle things up and make people question who was the real target\" of the attack.The cold-blooded assassination of Pastor, who boasted an estimated \u20ac20bn property empire in Monaco established by her grandfather, an immigrant Italian stonemason, shocked the principality where she was known as the \"princess\" and had links with the royal family.Using images from video cameras, phone taps and satellite information from the suspects' mobile phones, police traced the two men who attacked Pastor to a \u20ac90 hotel room in Nice that they had rented and taken a shower in before carrying out the killing. The turning point in the inquiry was the discovery of DNA from one of the suspects in shower gel in the room.Police later found a sports bag containing the guns used in the attack and a \"large sum of money\".Detectives arrested Janowski for questioning about certain bank transactions on his account after discovering he had withdrawn \u20ac250,000 from an offshore account in Dubai.Pastor's daughter Sylvia, known as \"Sisi\", and son Gildo received generous allowances reported to be up to \u20ac500,000 a month and lived in luxury apartments owned by their mother.Janowski, the Polish honorary consul in Monaco since 2007, is known in the principality for his charity work, particularly with the organisation Monaco Against Autism (MONAA), which he co-founded and which boasts Princess Charlene of Monaco as its honorary president.He was given the National Order of Merit of the French Republic by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2010 for his charity work and has a master's degree in economics. In the past he ran a chain of hotels and casinos in the principality.In the end, the killing of H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor and her chauffeur turned out to be as the French press had suggested from the beginning \u2013 a \"crime crapuleux\", a criminal act sparked by a motive as old as the Monaco hills: money.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Monaco billionaire's son-in-law accused of ordering her murder"},{"date": "2014-06-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Grace of Monaco (2014)Director: Olivier DahanEntertainment grade: E History grade: E+In 1956, Oscar-winning actress Grace Kelly married Prince Rainier III, sovereign of the tiny Mediterranean principality of Monaco.It's 1961, and Alfred Hitchcock is trying to persuade his former leading lady Grace Kelly, now Princess Grace of Monaco (Nicole Kidman), to star in his next project, Marnie. Both Hitch and Grace are bossed around by Madge (Parker Posey), a lady-in-waiting with pointy specs, pointy elbows and pursed lips who always wears head-to-toe black, even in the blazing Mediterranean sunshine. She appears to be a parody of the great Mrs Danvers in one of the real Hitchcock's own masterpieces, Rebecca.  Meanwhile, Grace and her limp husband Rainier (Tim Roth) are at a bleak party on a yacht with billionaire vulgarian Aristotle Onassis (Robert Lindsay). There is a grumpy French politician moaning about the war in Algeria. \"Oh, but colonialism is so last century,\" trills Grace. Kidman aims for the real Kelly's creamy ing\u00e9nue tone throughout, yet somehow ends up sounding like Derek Zoolander. Rainier faces a challenge to his rather diminutive power: Charles de Gaulle. The French president intends to blockade Monaco to force it to pay French taxes. There was such a crisis in 1962, but, in order to create sympathy for Grace and Rainier, the film needs you to see it as a proud Monegasque struggle for freedom and democracy. The problem is, what it was really about was the presumed right of the super-rich to sequester their obscene wealth in a ridiculous Ruritanian principality. At a guess, it may be tricky to drum up much sympathy for this from Guardian readers. Or indeed from anyone in the 99%, some of whom the producers are presumably hoping will shell out to see their silly movie. \"The future is business for the sake of business,\" simpers Rainier. What a slogan! To the barricades!Several daft subplots rub up disconsolately against each other, mostly having been fictionalised or transplanted from another point in history. For example, it is true that Rainier's sister Antoinette tried to take the throne from him \u2013 but that was in 1950, not 1962. In a last-ditch attempt to knit some of its fraying strands together, the film suggests that General de Gaulle is attempting to conquer Monaco because Grace wants to be in a Hitchcock film. Nope. Finally, Grace figures out how to end the war (there wasn't a war) \u2013 throw a party! Grace arrives at the Monaco Red Cross Ball shimmering in diamonds and the sparkliest of princess dresses \u2013 the filmmakers evidently having decided that the restrained gown she really wore n'a pas coup\u00e9 la moutarde. She has persuaded General de Gaulle himself to come, which in real life he did not. President Kennedy has sent his defence secretary, Robert McNamara, who is warmly cheered by the crowd. This scene is set in mid-October 1962, when McNamara and Kennedy cannot be said to have been glued to events in Monaco: they were slightly more concerned with the impending global apocalypse threatened by the Cuban missile crisis.Rising to her feet, Grace makes the kind of horror speech you might make if you were incredibly nervous and drank all your champagne, then all everyone else's champagne, then staggered up on stage and insisted on talking despite all your friends trying to drag you off. \"I believe in fairytales,\" she burbles. \"I believe they can come true. I believe the world will not always be full of hatred and conflict if we are prepared to sacrifice enough.\" Anything short of paying taxes, obviously. \"That's what Monaco means to me.\" She is crying now, from self-pity. It is awful. \"I don't think anyone should have the right to crush happiness or beauty,\" she bleats on. \"It's not how I was raised.\" There is rapturous, inexplicable applause. McNamara leans over to President de Gaulle. \"You're not really gonna drop a bomb on Princess Grace, are you, Charles?\" he says. No, of course he's not. Given the chance, though, the audience might. \"I love you,\" whispers Rainier to Grace as she sits down. Presumably, this is supposed to signify a happy ending. In fact, the marriage was not a success. Grace and Rainier continued to spend a great deal of time apart, and she eventually moved alone into an apartment in Paris. In later life, she told friends she no longer dreamed of being a princess: instead, she fantasised about becoming a bag lady. Now, that might be a fairytale worth telling.Grace of Monaco is a weak, dull and depressing take on Grace Kelly's princess years, but it's still not as bad as the Diana movie.", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Film", "Culture", "Nicole Kidman", "Biopics", "Drama", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco - historically accurate? You've got some de Gaulle"},{"date": "2014-06-23T22:33:45Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "French police are reported to have arrested the daughter of a Monaco heiress fatally injured in a shooting in May. Officers picked up 19 suspects on Monday in raids in Nice and Marseille in the south of France and Rennes in the west, as part of their inquiry into the assassination of the wealthy property owner H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor, a friend of the principality's royal family.Among those believed arrested is the murdered woman's daughter, Sylvia, and her businessman son-in-law. A possible contract killing is among the theories being investigated.Pastor, 77, so well known in Monaco that she was nicknamed \"the vice-princess\", was shot on 6 May in what police described as an ambush as she left a hospital in Nice where she had been visiting her son Gildo, who had suffered a stroke.In the attack, a gunman wielding a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun opened fire twice on Pastor's Lancia Voyager car, injuring her and her chauffeur, Mohamed Darwich, 64. Darwich died four days later. Pastor was taken to hospital with face, neck, chest and abdomen injuries, and died a fortnight after the attack.CCTV images showed the gunman running off with a second man. The car continued a further 20 metres before crashing into a parked vehicle and coming to a halt.Afterwards a French judge opened an official inquiry into \"attempted murder and assassination by an organised group\". Police said they were looking into whether the attack had been carried out by Italian crime gangs.Pastor was the sister of Michel Pastor, a former chairman of Monaco football club who died in February. She was described by shocked friends as a \"model of wisdom and discretion\".The Pastor dynasty has a huge portfolio of property and land in Monaco estimated at 50,000 sq metres established by Pastor's grandfather, Jean-Baptiste, an impoverished Italian stonemason from Liguria, who arrived in Monaco in the 19th century.After constructing Monaco's first football stadium, Pastor's was taken over by his son Gildo who snapped up Mediterranean seafront real estate at bargain prices after the second world war. When Gildo died in 1990 his three children, H\u00e9l\u00e8ne and her late brothers, Michel and Victor, inherited his fortune.There are three branches of the Pastor family said to own between them as many as 3,000-4,000 flats of a total of 20,000 in the 0.8 square mile (2 sq km) principality. Their property is worth an estimated \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) .After the attack, Monaco's ruler Prince Albert said he was \"deeply upset\" and offered the Pastor family his \"very deep support\".Police, who first described the attack on Pastor's car as an \"ambush\" and an \"attempted execution\", admitted they had no idea whether it was Pastor or her chauffeur who was the target, and said the choice of weapons did not suggest a professional assassin or the Mafia.", "tags": ["Europe", "Monaco", "France", "World news"], "title": "French police arrest daughter of assassinated Monaco heiress"},{"date": "2014-06-27T17:19:47Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As in the best crime thrillers, detectives hunting the killers who gunned down wealthy Riviera property magnate H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor discovered the devil was in the detail \u2013 in this case the shower gel.It was the clue left in a hotel room that led police to Wojciech Janowski, Poland's honorary consul to Monaco and the dead woman's son-in-law, who appeared before a judge on Friday accused of ordering her murder.Janowski, 64, a Cambridge-educated Polish businessman who had lived with Pastor's daughter Sylvia for 28 years \u2013 the couple had never married \u2013 confessed to being \"implicated\" in the killing of Pastor and her chauffeur. Sylvia Pastor, 53, who was arrested at the same time but later \"totally exonerated\", was said to be in a state of shock. Six others accused of involvement in the murder in May are being held in police custody.Prosecutors say Janowski admitted giving his sporting coach \u20ac200,000 \"as well as presents including holidays and a car\" to organise the killing that he had been planning for \"a long time\".\"Janowski felt rejected by the rest of the Pastor family in general and by H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor in particular. Janowski says he wanted to put an end to his wife's suffering at the hands of her mother, but Sylvia Pastor contests this entirely,\" the public prosecutor in Marseille, Brice Robin, told a press conference.Two men, carrying a hunting rifle and a sawn-off shotgun, ambushed Pastor's Lancia Voyager car on 6 May as she left a Nice hospital where her son Gildo, 47, was recovering from a stroke. After firing twice into the vehicle and checking that both Pastor, 77, and her chauffeur of 15 years, Egyptian-born Mohamed Darwish, 64, had been hit, the men ran off.Darwish died in hospital after four days and Pastor 15 days later. Before succumbing to her injuries, she told police she had no idea who might want her dead.Robin said Janowski had obtained \u20ac8.4m from H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor via her daughter in the past year. The prosecutor said he had no idea where that money had gone but it was not in Janowski's bank account.He said Janowski had specified that he wanted Darwish dead \"as a diversion and to muddle things up and make people question who was the real target\" of the attack.The cold-blooded assassination of Pastor, who boasted an estimated \u20ac20bn property empire in Monaco established by her grandfather, an immigrant Italian stonemason, shocked the principality where she was known as the \"princess\" and had links with the royal family.Using images from video cameras, phone taps and satellite information from the suspects' mobile phones, police traced the two men who attacked Pastor to a \u20ac90 hotel room in Nice that they had rented and taken a shower in before carrying out the killing. The turning point in the inquiry was the discovery of DNA from one of the suspects in shower gel in the room.Police later found a sports bag containing the guns used in the attack and a \"large sum of money\".Detectives arrested Janowski for questioning about certain bank transactions on his account after discovering he had withdrawn \u20ac250,000 from an offshore account in Dubai.Pastor's daughter Sylvia, known as \"Sisi\", and son Gildo received generous allowances reported to be up to \u20ac500,000 a month and lived in luxury apartments owned by their mother.Janowski, the Polish honorary consul in Monaco since 2007, is known in the principality for his charity work, particularly with the organisation Monaco Against Autism (MONAA), which he co-founded and which boasts Princess Charlene of Monaco as its honorary president.He was given the National Order of Merit of the French Republic by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2010 for his charity work and has a master's degree in economics. In the past he ran a chain of hotels and casinos in the principality.In the end, the killing of H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Pastor and her chauffeur turned out to be as the French press had suggested from the beginning \u2013 a \"crime crapuleux\", a criminal act sparked by a motive as old as the Monaco hills: money.", "tags": ["Monaco", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Monaco billionaire's son-in-law accused of ordering her murder"},{"date": "2014-06-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Grace of Monaco (2014)Director: Olivier DahanEntertainment grade: E History grade: E+In 1956, Oscar-winning actress Grace Kelly married Prince Rainier III, sovereign of the tiny Mediterranean principality of Monaco.It's 1961, and Alfred Hitchcock is trying to persuade his former leading lady Grace Kelly, now Princess Grace of Monaco (Nicole Kidman), to star in his next project, Marnie. Both Hitch and Grace are bossed around by Madge (Parker Posey), a lady-in-waiting with pointy specs, pointy elbows and pursed lips who always wears head-to-toe black, even in the blazing Mediterranean sunshine. She appears to be a parody of the great Mrs Danvers in one of the real Hitchcock's own masterpieces, Rebecca.  Meanwhile, Grace and her limp husband Rainier (Tim Roth) are at a bleak party on a yacht with billionaire vulgarian Aristotle Onassis (Robert Lindsay). There is a grumpy French politician moaning about the war in Algeria. \"Oh, but colonialism is so last century,\" trills Grace. Kidman aims for the real Kelly's creamy ing\u00e9nue tone throughout, yet somehow ends up sounding like Derek Zoolander. Rainier faces a challenge to his rather diminutive power: Charles de Gaulle. The French president intends to blockade Monaco to force it to pay French taxes. There was such a crisis in 1962, but, in order to create sympathy for Grace and Rainier, the film needs you to see it as a proud Monegasque struggle for freedom and democracy. The problem is, what it was really about was the presumed right of the super-rich to sequester their obscene wealth in a ridiculous Ruritanian principality. At a guess, it may be tricky to drum up much sympathy for this from Guardian readers. Or indeed from anyone in the 99%, some of whom the producers are presumably hoping will shell out to see their silly movie. \"The future is business for the sake of business,\" simpers Rainier. What a slogan! To the barricades!Several daft subplots rub up disconsolately against each other, mostly having been fictionalised or transplanted from another point in history. For example, it is true that Rainier's sister Antoinette tried to take the throne from him \u2013 but that was in 1950, not 1962. In a last-ditch attempt to knit some of its fraying strands together, the film suggests that General de Gaulle is attempting to conquer Monaco because Grace wants to be in a Hitchcock film. Nope. Finally, Grace figures out how to end the war (there wasn't a war) \u2013 throw a party! Grace arrives at the Monaco Red Cross Ball shimmering in diamonds and the sparkliest of princess dresses \u2013 the filmmakers evidently having decided that the restrained gown she really wore n'a pas coup\u00e9 la moutarde. She has persuaded General de Gaulle himself to come, which in real life he did not. President Kennedy has sent his defence secretary, Robert McNamara, who is warmly cheered by the crowd. This scene is set in mid-October 1962, when McNamara and Kennedy cannot be said to have been glued to events in Monaco: they were slightly more concerned with the impending global apocalypse threatened by the Cuban missile crisis.Rising to her feet, Grace makes the kind of horror speech you might make if you were incredibly nervous and drank all your champagne, then all everyone else's champagne, then staggered up on stage and insisted on talking despite all your friends trying to drag you off. \"I believe in fairytales,\" she burbles. \"I believe they can come true. I believe the world will not always be full of hatred and conflict if we are prepared to sacrifice enough.\" Anything short of paying taxes, obviously. \"That's what Monaco means to me.\" She is crying now, from self-pity. It is awful. \"I don't think anyone should have the right to crush happiness or beauty,\" she bleats on. \"It's not how I was raised.\" There is rapturous, inexplicable applause. McNamara leans over to President de Gaulle. \"You're not really gonna drop a bomb on Princess Grace, are you, Charles?\" he says. No, of course he's not. Given the chance, though, the audience might. \"I love you,\" whispers Rainier to Grace as she sits down. Presumably, this is supposed to signify a happy ending. In fact, the marriage was not a success. Grace and Rainier continued to spend a great deal of time apart, and she eventually moved alone into an apartment in Paris. In later life, she told friends she no longer dreamed of being a princess: instead, she fantasised about becoming a bag lady. Now, that might be a fairytale worth telling.Grace of Monaco is a weak, dull and depressing take on Grace Kelly's princess years, but it's still not as bad as the Diana movie.", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Film", "Culture", "Nicole Kidman", "Biopics", "Drama", "Period and historical"], "title": "Grace of Monaco - historically accurate? You've got some de Gaulle"},{"date": "2014-05-29T17:24:00Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "The Cannes film festival has seen some atrocious films in its time, largely born of the desire to get big names on the red carpet regardless of the actual quality of their cinematic vehicles. But none have stunk the place up to quite the extent as Grace of Monaco, the Grace Kelly biopic that was handed the shop-window slot at the beginning of this year's festival; the programmers, presumably, were banking on yards of Nicole Kidman paparazzi shots to boost the profile of Cannes' opening days. It also helped, no doubt, that Grace was a French film, from a director, Olivier Dahan, who had proved with La Vie en Rose that he could take on Hollywood's big-hitters and beat them at their own game.It didn't quite work out that way, unfortunately: Grace of Monaco drew almost universally derisive reviews. The narrative stew that pulled together Hitchcock, Monte Carlo, Maria Callas and Charles de Gaulle ought to have pushed every cultural button; instead, it proved a massive turn-off.It is with some trepidation, therefore, that I am ushered into the presence of Dahan the day after the disastrous gala premiere. There is no chance he won't be aware of our critic Peter Bradshaw's instantly legendary takedown. Will Dahan be a haggard wreck, a cigarette shoved in every orifice? Will he burst into tears and beg forgiveness? Or will he simply come at me with a flick-knife before I have the chance to\u00a0get a word out?On top of this Dahan has, unfortunately, a bit of a reputation. A widely circulated photograph of him \"directing\" Kidman was so painfully staged it looked like a joke. A British producer of my acquaintance, who wishes to remain anonymous, described him as an \"absurd, pretentious git \u2026 complete with wardrobe out of central casting for 'arty French director'\". Blimey. Plus\u00a0we've already seen him in action at the Cannes press conference, waffling away with a bulky ageing-hipster cap clamped on his head.So it is perhaps a slight disappointment to find Dahan in a fairly chirpy mood, happy to chat and seemingly unaffected by his drubbing a day ago. What's his secret, I wonder? He fixes me with a confident stare and says: \"I don't read the critics.\" Well, that will do it. But the chronology of Cannes is pretty fixed: press screening in the morning, reviews out by lunchtime, red-carpet gala in front of screaming fans and hysterical media in the evening. Surely some sense of the cataclysm will have seeped through \u2013 and hasn't that taken the edge off? Dahan, the way he tells it, is all Teflon. \"Cannes is a sort of gladiators' arena, and that's the fun part of it. When you accept to come here to open the festival, you know you are going to be criticised. I have no problem with the fact that I expose myself and the movie, and it's normal that I can disagree with the way some people feel.\"Perhaps it's true, perhaps it isn't, but Dahan won't budge. He's not rattled, and that's that. Ensconced in the super-rich preserve of the H\u00f4tel du Cap, with Roman Abramovich's summer place around the corner and high-rolling Hollywood types booking out the rooms, the hustle of the Croisette and the Palais do seem a long way away. In his film-making as well as his dress sense, Dahan may have something about him of Baz Luhrmann and Pedro Almod\u00f3var, but he seems considerably more relaxed than either.But we're forgetting something: Dahan has just spent three years working on Grace of Monaco \u2013 ever since the producer Pierre-Ange Le Pogam bought the much-fought-over script by Arash Amel that had featured in the 2011 Black List of unproduced screenplays. If we agree that no one sets out to make a terrible film, there must be reasons why it ended up the way it did. Besides, Dahan is no pushover: he had the cojones to call out Harvey Weinstein in public over the latter's demand for a substantial re-edit of the film. It was a complicated spat: Weinstein has the US distribution rights and is not \u2013 unlike with, say, The Artist \u2013 credited as a producer, so could not enforce any changes. But so powerful is he, and with such a distinguished track record, that film-makers defy him at their peril, however much they gripe in private. Telling the media that Weinstein's re-edit was \"a pile of shit\" was entirely unprecedented, and won Dahan a renegotiated deal that reduced his payments but preserved his right to veto any changes. (Though in all honesty, Weinstein's instincts that Grace had big problems proved absolutely correct.)With the kerfuffle seemingly behind him, Dahan can afford to be generous. \"It happened when I was actually still making the movie, so my mood was completely different from today,\" he says. \"When you are in the middle of the process, you are not so open. I am a very collaborative person, and it was about the lack of collaboration with Harvey. He was not there so that is why it happened like it did. I am a free person.\"I was never against having a slightly different cut for the US, because it's a special place, for sure, and Harvey knows the average American viewer better than me. But now I hope\u00a0we can finally collaborate.\"Preparing to parse his film, Dahan again fixes me with his level, confident stare, and explains why he wanted to make Grace of Monaco in the first place. \"I was interested in making a portrait of an actress,\" he says. \"I was not so much interested in the princess, more the artist.\" He points out his Edith Piaf film, La Vie en Rose, which got Marion Cotillard the best actress Oscar, was also \"about a woman artist, an artist who could never give up, never surrender, never quit her passion\". Grace Kelly, he says, \"was the complete opposite: it showed how an artist can quit. It\u00a0was also part of herself she quit.\"So if we're reading that right, Dahan aimed to make a film about the retreat from creative afflatus, the lure of marriage, children, a fairy castle? \"Exactly,\" he says. \"In the film, it is six\u00a0years after the wedding, six years after she left Hollywood. She is in between. She is not yet the real princess she is going to become later, but she is not an actress any more. She\u00a0is in no man's land.\"At this moment, as happened in real life, Hitchcock came with Marnie. It was the spark that put the little light on. She wants to go back to Hollywood \u2013 not to leave the family, but just to be herself. It must be possible to combine marriage with a husband, with a passion and a job. That's the condition of women in general. I started to think of Grace of Monaco as a metaphor for women in general.\"So the film is about a standard working mum trying to juggle career and family \u2013 not the story of a self-pitying, overprivileged type who just wants to defend Monaco's position as a tax haven and billionaire's playground? \"It's true it's about a fairytale and a princess story and there is a danger with that. For most women, they are a trap. Grace is herself the best example: she goes from a Hollywood cage to a royalty cage. It is the story of a woman who tries to please everyone, and loses part of herself as an artist.\"As Dahan explains his thinking, it makes his movie sound almost reasonable \u2013 interesting, even. Especially his decision to ask Nicole Kidman to play the lead. \"She had her own experience in marriage. Not just an ordinary marriage, but when she was married to someone \u2013 you know who I mean.\" Polite to a fault, Dahan won't let the words \"Tom Cruise\" pass his lips. \"It was like she was married to another, third person at the same time, someone with a certain kind of power underneath the person. It was actually so similar to Grace, and for me as a film-maker it was very interesting.\" He talks about cutting in the film between shots of Grace, of Kidman herself, and \"a mix\" of the two; something, I have to admit, that completely passed me by.Maybe there are hidden depths here\u00a0after all? Is this a subtle endorsement of Monaco's tax system? \"I understand you thinking that, but I'm not pro-Monaco, pro-banker or whatever. I'm pro-woman. I'm not against Monaco \u2013 I'm just not interested in it. I'm interested in an actress who became a princess, and then was almost trapped in that, losing maybe the best part of herself. I'm on the artist's side, not on the political side or the principality or the royalty. I am only on the side I understand.\"Dahan's thoughts then turn to the future: he says he'd like to make a third movie about an artist, to complete the trilogy. \"Piaf and Grace are opposites, but with the same result, a kind of death. I will do a third movie; it will make something complete for me. The\u00a0difficulty with telling stories about\u00a0real people is you have to find a way of mixing yourself into the matter. So I have to wait for more experience in my life to be able to make that third movie. But I will.\"It sounds like a threat.\u2022\u00a0Grace of Monaco is released in the UK on 6 June. Full coverage here", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Europe", "Film", "Biopics", "Festivals", "World news", "Cannes 2014", "Monaco", "Cannes film festival", "Nicole Kidman"], "title": "Olivier Dahan: 'I don't read the Grace of Monaco critics'"},{"date": "2014-10-11T23:04:10Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "Remember Edge of Tomorrow (Warner, 12), Doug Liman\u2019s time warp thriller that, despite its slick cleverness and muscular, metallic clatter, underwhelmed at the box office in June? If you don\u2019t, that\u2019s exactly what the studio is hoping for. Never has a blockbuster been as drastically rebranded for DVD as this one, which now goes by the ungainly double-barrelled moniker Live Die Repeat: Edge of Tomorrow, that sneaky colon optimistically implying a franchise that will never be. It\u2019s not the first such change the film has endured, either: they might as well have stuck with its pre-release title, All You Need Is Kill. (What is the edge of tomorrow, anyway? Today?)More\u2019s the pity, since by any name, Liman\u2019s film remains an exciting, conceptually rich hunk of mainstream sci-fi. Dismissed by some critics as \u201cGroundhog Day with aliens\u201d \u2013 not an inaccurate description, but not an unappealing one either \u2013 its one-day-on-loop structure cannily channels the perfectionist drive of video-game culture. Tom Cruise, recently so stainless in his action vehicles, gets an unusually prickly, self-aware role as a demoted military figurehead forced to walk the talk when he\u2019s sent to the front line, literally fighting the same extraterrestrial battle over and over until he\u2019s worthy enough to survive it. Likewise, Edge of Tomorrow arrives on shelves reincarnated, renewed and battle-ready: it deserves another go.I\u2019m less inclined to lobby for an autumnal reappraisal of The Other Woman (Fox, 12), a lacquered, would-be feminist farce that plays a little like the already light-headed First Wives Club on alcopops \u2013 but it\u2019s not as toxic as its critical reputation. Cameron Diaz and Leslie Mann give it some comic snap as the mutually scorned mistress and wife of a Wall Street love rat who embark on a collaborative revenge mission, and its gender politics are often arrestingly strange, but the fizz flattens as the film succumbs to lowbrow pratfalls.Unreservedly deserving of its fatal reviews, however, is Grace of Monaco (Warner, 12). Olivier Dahan\u2019s stylistically unhinged Grace Kelly portrait is every bit as risible as you\u2019ve heard, wafting as it does between Hitchcock meta-pastiche, Ferrero Rocher-wrapped Princess Diaries fantasy and vacant historical reflection on Charles de Gaulle\u2019s 1963 blockading of Monaco, in which the rights of French tax evaders are defended with riotously impassioned verve. Nicole Kidman, committed if brazenly miscast, survives it. You might not.Dahan\u2019s folly looks even more like frippery when placed beside Camille Claudel 1915 (Soda, PG), fellow Frenchman Bruno Dumont\u2019s very different idea of a tortured artiste biopic. A measured, selective snapshot of the eponymous sculptor in decline, set two years after she was unjustly institutionalised by her family, it\u2019s as tonally dour and formally severe as you\u2019d expect from the director, with real mentally ill patients making up the majority of the cast. It\u2019s Juliette Binoche\u2019s astonishing, open-hearted lead turn that makes the impressively hard graft worthwhile.One wonders how the perma-glowing Audrey Tautou would fare under Dumont\u2019s chilly control, but she\u2019s on agreeably familiar turf in Chinese Puzzle (StudioCanal, 15), a sprightly, primary-coloured closer to director C\u00e9dric Klapisch\u2019s loose trilogy of globe-trotting romantic comedies. This time we\u2019re in the Big Apple, where Tautou is one of several markedly pretty expats on a bed-hopping carousel; the stakes are low and leisurely, the comedy droll, the result a bright, chic divertissement.The virtual bargain bins of online streaming outlets are often clogged with ominous no-name castoffs, but nestled amid the more hilarious Z-list offerings in Blinkbox\u2019s 99p rental section \u2013 I\u2019ve already bookmarked Angel Dog, in which the title is applied quite literally, for future viewing \u2013 are some unexpected diamonds that you won\u2019t find on Netflix. The pick of the lot is American director Ramin Bahrani\u2019s moving 2008 miniature Goodbye Solo, in which a crusty, elderly loner in North Carolina hires a gabby Senegalese taxi driver to ferry him to his intended suicide spot. It\u2019s a disarming story of diverted destiny; a more grounded take, one might say, on living, dying and repeating.", "tags": ["DVD and video reviews", "Tom Cruise", "Nicole Kidman", "Audrey Tautou", "Juliette Binoche", "Action and adventure", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "DVDs and downloads: Live Die Repeat: Edge of Tomorrow, The Other Woman, Grace of Monaco, Camille Claudel 1915, Chinese Puzzle, Goodbye Solo \u2013 and more | Guy Lodge"},{"date": "2015-04-08T08:04:28Z", "country": "monaco", "content": "As a biopic of one of the most famous women in the world, starring Oscar-winner Nicole Kidman and with La Vie en Rose\u2019s Olivier Dahan in the director\u2019s chair, Grace of Monaco was expected to carve out a place as an awards-season contender after it was announced as the opening film of the 2014 Cannes film festival. But following rows over distribution, a spat with the Mon\u00e9gasque royal family and scathing reviews, it has been revealed that the film will receive its belated US debut a year later on the Lifetime channel. Related: Olivier Dahan: 'I don't read the Grace of Monaco critics' With no North American theatrical bow in sight, Grace of Monaco will be screened on 25 May via the cable channel famed for soapy melodramas and dubious biopics of the likes of Whitney Houston, Aaliyah, Brittany Murphy and Elizabeth Taylor. Dahan\u2019s film centres on the former Grace Kelly\u2019s vital role in helping to avoid a coup in 1962, when Monaco and France were in dispute. Tim Roth plays Prince Rainier, and the cast also features such luminaries as Frank Langella, Derek Jacobi and Parker Posey.The biopic first ran into trouble when it was denounced by Kelly\u2019s son, Prince Albert of Monaco, and his two sisters as \u201cpure fiction\u201d in January 2013. It later emerged that Hollywood superproducer Harvey Weinstein refused to sanction a North American release without substantial edits, which he thought should give the film a better chance of awards season success.  Related: Grace of Monaco review: Cannes opens with a royal biopic worse than Diana Dahan was fiercely critical of a version of the biopic reportedly re-edited by Weinstein in October 2013. He labelled it a \u201cpile of shit\u201d and threatened to block to its release, and told Lib\u00e9ration: \u201cIf I don\u2019t sign, that\u2019s where the out-and-out blackmail starts, but I could go that far. There are two versions of the film for now: mine and his \u2026 which I find catastrophic.\u201dWhen the film eventually debuted at Cannes, out of competition, it was labelled \u201cawe-inspiringly wooden\u201d by the Guardian\u2019s Peter Bradshaw, who added: \u201cThe cringe factor is ionospherically high. A fleet of ambulances may have to be stationed outside the Palais to take tuxed audiences to hospital afterwards to have their toes uncurled under general anaesthetic.\u201dCritics elsewhere were no kinder, and the film currently holds a rating of nine percent \u201crotten\u201d on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. It did receive a theatrical release in most European countries following its Cannes debut and in fact has so far made around $26.6m (\u00a317.8m) at the global box office, almost recouping a reported $30m production budget.\u2022 Pacemaker bombs and invisible children: match the Lifetime movie title to the plot", "tags": ["Grace of Monaco", "Film", "Culture", "Nicole Kidman", "Television & radio", "Cannes film festival", "Festivals", "Television", "Cannes 2014", "US television"], "title": "Grace of Monaco to premiere on Lifetime channel in US"}]